docs/src/pages/getting-started/svelte.mdx, before:

import { Callout, Steps, Tab, Tabs } from "nextra-theme-docs";

import EnvSetup from "./_shared/env-setup.mdx";
import TailwindSetup from "./_shared/tailwind-setup.mdx";

# Getting Started with SvelteKit

## Package Setup

<Steps>

### Install the packages

```bash npm2yarn copy
npm install uploadthing @uploadthing/svelte
```

### Add env variables

```bash
UPLOADTHING_SECRET=... # A secret key for your app (starts with sk_live_)
```

<Callout type="warning">
  If you don't already have a uploadthing secret key, [sign
  up](https://uploadthing.com/sign-in) and create one from the
  [dashboard!](https://uploadthing.com/dashboard)
</Callout>

</Steps>

## Set Up A FileRouter

<Steps>
### Creating your first FileRoute

<Callout>
  For more details on how to create a file router, see the
  [router](/api-reference/server#file-routes) docs
</Callout>

All files uploaded to uploadthing are associated with a FileRoute. The following
is a very minimalistic example, with a single FileRoute "imageUploader". Think
of a FileRoute similar to an endpoint, it has:

- Permitted types ["image", "video", etc]
- Max file size
- (Optional) `middleware` to authenticate and tag requests
- `onUploadComplete` callback for when uploads are completed

To get full insight into what you can do with the FileRoutes, please refer to
the [File Router API](/api-reference/server#file-routes).

```ts copy filename="src/lib/server/uploadthing.ts"
import { createUploadthing } from "uploadthing/server";
import type { FileRouter } from "uploadthing/server";

const f = createUploadthing();

const auth = (req: Request) => ({ id: "fakeId" }); // Fake auth function

// FileRouter for your app, can contain multiple FileRoutes
export const ourFileRouter = {
  // Define as many FileRoutes as you like, each with a unique routeSlug
  imageUploader: f({ image: { maxFileSize: "4MB" } })
    // Set permissions and file types for this FileRoute
    .middleware(async ({ req }) => {
      // This code runs on your server before upload
      const user = await auth(req);

      // If you throw, the user will not be able to upload
      if (!user) throw new Error("Unauthorized");

      // Whatever is returned here is accessible in onUploadComplete as `metadata`
      return { userId: user.id };
    })
    .onUploadComplete(async ({ metadata, file }) => {
      // This code RUNS ON YOUR SERVER after upload
      console.log("Upload complete for userId:", metadata.userId);

      console.log("file url", file.url);
    }),
} satisfies FileRouter;

export type OurFileRouter = typeof ourFileRouter;
```

### Create an API route using the FileRouter

<Callout type="info">
  File path here doesn't matter, you can serve this from any route. We recommend
  serving it from `/api/uploadthing`.
</Callout>

```ts copy filename="src/routes/api/uploadthing/+server.ts"
import { env } from "$env/dynamic/private";
import { ourFileRouter } from "$lib/server/uploadthing";

import { createRouteHandler } from "uploadthing/server";

// The Svelte extension complains if you export the handlers directly
const { GET, POST } = createRouteHandler({
  router: ourFileRouter,
  config: {
    uploadthingSecret: env.UPLOADTHING_SECRET,
  },
});

export { GET, POST };
```

> See configuration options in
> [server API reference](/api-reference/server#createroutehandler)

### Add UploadThing's Styles

<Tabs items={["Tailwind", "Not Tailwind"]}>
  <Tab>
    <TailwindSetup />
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    Include our CSS file in the root layout to make sure the components look right!

    ```svelte copy filename="src/+layout.svelte"
    <script lang="ts">
        import "@uploadthing/svelte/styles.css";
    </script>
    ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Creating the UploadThing Helpers (recommended)

Generating the `createUploader` helper lets you pass your generic `FileRouter`
once and then have typesafe uploaders everywhere, instead of having to pass the
generic everytime you call `createUploader`, but you can also import it directly
from `@uploadthing/svelte`.

Generating the `createUploadThing` helper function lets you create your own
components.

```ts copy filename="src/lib/utils/uploadthing.ts"
import type { OurFileRouter } from "$lib/server/uploadthing";

import { generateSvelteHelpers } from "@uploadthing/svelte";

export const { createUploader, createUploadThing } =
  generateSvelteHelpers<OurFileRouter>();
```

### Use the FileRouter in your app

The `@uploadthing/svelte` package includes an "Uploader" component that you can
simply drop into your app, and start uploading files immediately. To create the
"Uploader" props you can use the "createUploader" helper. Make sure to pass your
generic `FileRouter` to this function if you're importing it directly from
`@uploadthing/svelte`.

```svelte copy filename="src/routes/+page.svelte"
<script lang="ts">
  import { createUploader } from "$lib/utils/uploadthing";

  import { Uploader } from "@uploadthing/svelte";

  const uploader = createUploader("imageUploader", {
    onClientUploadComplete: (res) => {
      console.log(`onClientUploadComplete`, res);
      alert("Upload Completed");
    },
    onUploadError: (error: Error) => {
      alert(`ERROR! ${error.message}`);
    },
  });
</script>

<main>
  <Uploader {uploader} />
</main>
```

You can also choose to use the "UploadButton" and "UploadDropzone" components
separately. Both are included in the `@uploadthing/svelte` package.

```svelte copy filename="src/routes/+page.svelte"
<script lang="ts">
  import { createUploader } from "$lib/utils/uploadthing";

  import { Uploader } from "@uploadthing/svelte";

  const uploader = createUploader("imageUploader", {
    onClientUploadComplete: (res) => {
      console.log(`onClientUploadComplete`, res);
      alert("Upload Completed");
    },
    onUploadError: (error: Error) => {
      alert(`ERROR! ${error.message}`);
    },
  });
</script>

<div class="ut-flex ut-flex-col ut-items-center ut-justify-center ut-gap-4">
  <span class="ut-text-center ut-text-4xl ut-font-bold">
    {`Upload a file using a button:`}
  </span>
  <UploadButton {uploader} />
</div>
<div class="ut-flex ut-flex-col ut-items-center ut-justify-center ut-gap-4">
  <span class="ut-text-center ut-text-4xl ut-font-bold">
    {`...or using a dropzone:`}
  </span>
  <UploadDropzone {uploader} />
</div>
```

</Steps>

## Advanced usage: `createUploadThing`

For advanced use cases, the premade components might not be flexible enough to
suit your needs. In that case, you can use the `createUploadThing` hook to build
your own components with a custom upload flow:

<Steps>

### Create the hook

First, generate a typed hook using the `generateSvelteHelpers` function from
`@uploadthing/svelte` as show above.

### Use the hook

Then, use the hook in your component. By using the hook, you have full control
of when and how to upload files.

```svelte copy filename="src/routes/+page.svelte"
<script lang="ts">
  import { createUploadThing } from "$lib/utils/uploadthing";

  const { startUpload } = createUploadThing("imageUploader", {
    onClientUploadComplete: () => {
      alert("Upload Completed");
    },
  });
</script>

<input
  type="file"
  on:change={async (e) => {
    const file = e.currentTarget.files?.[0];
    if (!file) return;

    // Do something with files

    // Then start the upload
    await startUpload([file]);
  }}
/>
```

</Steps>

## Theming Svelte components

Check out our [theming guide](/theming) to know the basics about
[components anatomy](/theming#components-anatomy) and
[theming props](/theming#theming-props) as they still apply to
`@uploadthing/svelte`.

However, [content customization](/theming#content-customization) makes use of
Svelte's named slots and slot props.

### UploadButton content customization

```svelte
<UploadButton {uploader}>
  <span slot="button-content" let:state>
    {state.isUploading ? "Uploading..." : "Pick a file"}
  </span>
  <span slot="clear-btn" let:state>
    Clear files
  </span>
  <span slot="allowed-content" let:state>
    You can choose between {state.fileTypes.join(", ")} files
  </span>
</UploadButton>
```

### UploadDropzone content customization

```svelte
<UploadDropzone {uploader}>
  <i slot="upload-icon" let:state>
    <!-- some custom icon -->
  </i>
  <span slot="button-content" let:state>
    {state.isUploading ? "Uploading..." : "Pick a file"}
  </span>
  <span slot="label" let:state>
    {state.ready ? "Ready to upload" : "Loading..."}
  </span>
  <span slot="allowed-content" let:state>
    You can choose between {state.fileTypes.join(", ")} files
  </span>
</UploadDropzone>
```

Commit message:

remove redundant info from docs

docs/src/pages/getting-started/svelte.mdx, after:

import { Callout, Steps, Tab, Tabs } from "nextra-theme-docs";

import EnvSetup from "./_shared/env-setup.mdx";
import TailwindSetup from "./_shared/tailwind-setup.mdx";

# Getting Started with SvelteKit

## Package Setup

<Steps>

### Install the packages

```bash npm2yarn copy
npm install uploadthing @uploadthing/svelte
```

### Add env variables

```bash
UPLOADTHING_SECRET=... # A secret key for your app (starts with sk_live_)
```

<Callout type="warning">
  If you don't already have a uploadthing secret key, [sign
  up](https://uploadthing.com/sign-in) and create one from the
  [dashboard!](https://uploadthing.com/dashboard)
</Callout>

</Steps>

## Set Up A FileRouter

<Steps>
### Creating your first FileRoute

<Callout>
  For more details on how to create a file router, see the
  [router](/api-reference/server#file-routes) docs
</Callout>

All files uploaded to uploadthing are associated with a FileRoute. The following
is a very minimalistic example, with a single FileRoute "imageUploader". Think
of a FileRoute similar to an endpoint, it has:

- Permitted types ["image", "video", etc]
- Max file size
- (Optional) `middleware` to authenticate and tag requests
- `onUploadComplete` callback for when uploads are completed

To get full insight into what you can do with the FileRoutes, please refer to
the [File Router API](/api-reference/server#file-routes).

```ts copy filename="src/lib/server/uploadthing.ts"
import { createUploadthing } from "uploadthing/server";
import type { FileRouter } from "uploadthing/server";

const f = createUploadthing();

const auth = (req: Request) => ({ id: "fakeId" }); // Fake auth function

// FileRouter for your app, can contain multiple FileRoutes
export const ourFileRouter = {
  // Define as many FileRoutes as you like, each with a unique routeSlug
  imageUploader: f({ image: { maxFileSize: "4MB" } })
    // Set permissions and file types for this FileRoute
    .middleware(async ({ req }) => {
      // This code runs on your server before upload
      const user = await auth(req);

      // If you throw, the user will not be able to upload
      if (!user) throw new Error("Unauthorized");

      // Whatever is returned here is accessible in onUploadComplete as `metadata`
      return { userId: user.id };
    })
    .onUploadComplete(async ({ metadata, file }) => {
      // This code RUNS ON YOUR SERVER after upload
      console.log("Upload complete for userId:", metadata.userId);

      console.log("file url", file.url);
    }),
} satisfies FileRouter;

export type OurFileRouter = typeof ourFileRouter;
```

### Create an API route using the FileRouter

<Callout type="info">
  File path here doesn't matter, you can serve this from any route. We recommend
  serving it from `/api/uploadthing`.
</Callout>

```ts copy filename="src/routes/api/uploadthing/+server.ts"
import { env } from "$env/dynamic/private";
import { ourFileRouter } from "$lib/server/uploadthing";

import { createRouteHandler } from "uploadthing/server";

// The Svelte extension complains if you export the handlers directly
const { GET, POST } = createRouteHandler({
  router: ourFileRouter,
  config: {
    uploadthingSecret: env.UPLOADTHING_SECRET,
  },
});

export { GET, POST };
```

> See configuration options in
> [server API reference](/api-reference/server#createroutehandler)

### Add UploadThing's Styles

<Tabs items={["Tailwind", "Not Tailwind"]}>
  <Tab>
    <TailwindSetup />
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    Include our CSS file in the root layout to make sure the components look right!

    ```svelte copy filename="src/+layout.svelte"
    <script lang="ts">
        import "@uploadthing/svelte/styles.css";
    </script>
    ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Creating the UploadThing Helpers

Generating the `createUploadThing` helper function lets you create your own
components, with full type safety:

```ts copy filename="src/lib/utils/uploadthing.ts"
import type { OurFileRouter } from "$lib/server/uploadthing";

import { generateSvelteHelpers } from "@uploadthing/svelte";

export const { createUploader, createUploadThing } =
  generateSvelteHelpers<OurFileRouter>();
```

### Use the FileRouter in your app

The `@uploadthing/svelte` package includes an "Uploader" component that you can
simply drop into your app, and start uploading files immediately. To create the
"Uploader" props you can use the "createUploader" helper you generated in the
previous step.

```svelte copy filename="src/routes/+page.svelte"
<script lang="ts">
  import { createUploader } from "$lib/utils/uploadthing";

  import { Uploader } from "@uploadthing/svelte";

  const uploader = createUploader("imageUploader", {
    onClientUploadComplete: (res) => {
      console.log(`onClientUploadComplete`, res);
      alert("Upload Completed");
    },
    onUploadError: (error: Error) => {
      alert(`ERROR! ${error.message}`);
    },
  });
</script>

<main>
  <Uploader {uploader} />
</main>
```

You can also choose to use the "UploadButton" and "UploadDropzone" components
separately. Both are included in the `@uploadthing/svelte` package.

```svelte copy filename="src/routes/+page.svelte"
<script lang="ts">
  import { createUploader } from "$lib/utils/uploadthing";

  import { Uploader } from "@uploadthing/svelte";

  const uploader = createUploader("imageUploader", {
    onClientUploadComplete: (res) => {
      console.log(`onClientUploadComplete`, res);
      alert("Upload Completed");
    },
    onUploadError: (error: Error) => {
      alert(`ERROR! ${error.message}`);
    },
  });
</script>

<div class="ut-flex ut-flex-col ut-items-center ut-justify-center ut-gap-4">
  <span class="ut-text-center ut-text-4xl ut-font-bold">
    {`Upload a file using a button:`}
  </span>
  <UploadButton {uploader} />
</div>
<div class="ut-flex ut-flex-col ut-items-center ut-justify-center ut-gap-4">
  <span class="ut-text-center ut-text-4xl ut-font-bold">
    {`...or using a dropzone:`}
  </span>
  <UploadDropzone {uploader} />
</div>
```

</Steps>

## Advanced usage: `createUploadThing`

For advanced use cases, the premade components might not be flexible enough to
suit your needs. In that case, you can use the `createUploadThing` hook to build
your own components with a custom upload flow:

<Steps>

### Create the hook

First, generate a typed hook using the `generateSvelteHelpers` function from
`@uploadthing/svelte` as show above.

### Use the hook

Then, use the hook in your component. By using the hook, you have full control
of when and how to upload files.

```svelte copy filename="src/routes/+page.svelte"
<script lang="ts">
  import { createUploadThing } from "$lib/utils/uploadthing";

  const { startUpload } = createUploadThing("imageUploader", {
    onClientUploadComplete: () => {
      alert("Upload Completed");
    },
  });
</script>

<input
  type="file"
  on:change={async (e) => {
    const file = e.currentTarget.files?.[0];
    if (!file) return;

    // Do something with files

    // Then start the upload
    await startUpload([file]);
  }}
/>
```

</Steps>

## Theming Svelte components

Check out our [theming guide](/theming) to know the basics about
[components anatomy](/theming#components-anatomy) and
[theming props](/theming#theming-props) as they still apply to
`@uploadthing/svelte`.

However, [content customization](/theming#content-customization) makes use of
Svelte's named slots and slot props.

### UploadButton content customization

```svelte
<UploadButton {uploader}>
  <span slot="button-content" let:state>
    {state.isUploading ? "Uploading..." : "Pick a file"}
  </span>
  <span slot="clear-btn" let:state>
    Clear files
  </span>
  <span slot="allowed-content" let:state>
    You can choose between {state.fileTypes.join(", ")} files
  </span>
</UploadButton>
```

### UploadDropzone content customization

```svelte
<UploadDropzone {uploader}>
  <i slot="upload-icon" let:state>
    <!-- some custom icon -->
  </i>
  <span slot="button-content" let:state>
    {state.isUploading ? "Uploading..." : "Pick a file"}
  </span>
  <span slot="label" let:state>
    {state.ready ? "Ready to upload" : "Loading..."}
  </span>
  <span slot="allowed-content" let:state>
    You can choose between {state.fileTypes.join(", ")} files
  </span>
</UploadDropzone>
```
