docs/src/pages/faq.mdx, before:

import Image from "next/image";

### The UploadThing components look all weird, what's going on?

If your components appear unstyled, you likely forgot to import our CSS file
from the React package. Don't forget to add the following to your root
`layout.tsx` or `_app.tsx`:

```tsx
import "@uploadthing/react/styles.css";
```

### Some of my other components look weird now... what's up with that?

You may need to check the order of imports. Making sure that the uploadthing
component styles are imported before others usually does the trick

```tsx
import "@uploadthing/react/styles.css";
import "../styles/globals.css";
```

### When I upload files, I get the error `Failed to simulate callback for file. Is your webhook configured correctly?`

This error is our catch-all if we were unable to query the `/api/uploadthing`
endpoint. Almost every time we've seen someone who has this issue, it's because
their `middleware.ts` is configured incorrectly.

Make sure that `/api/uploadthing` is NOT blocked through your middleware. It
serves as both a validation endpoint for the client AND a webhook for the
`onUploadComplete` calls.

### I'm getting a `Type ... is not assignable to type '"You forgot to pass the generic"'` error

This occurs when you're importing the `UploadButton` or `UploadDropzone`
components from `@uploadthing/react` or `@uploadthing/solid` directly, and not
[generating your own typesafe components](/api-reference/react#generateComponents)
using `generateComponents`. While you can do this, it is not recommended as you
have to provide the generics yourself in order to get full typesafety.

```tsx
import { UploadButton } from "@uploadthing/react";

import type { OurFileRouter } from "~/app/api/uploadthing/core";

<UploadButton<OurFileRouter, "myFileRoute">
  endpoint="myFileRoute"
  // ...
/>;
```

As you can see, it's quite cumbersome having to provide the generics yourself,
especially since the `endpoint` prop must be specified twice due to lack of
partial inference in TypeScript.

### My callback runs in development but not in production

In order for UploadThing to work, our external server must be able to reach your
application to trigger the callbacks you have set up in your file router. This
is not possible if your application is running on localhost.

When you're running in development, UploadThing will simulate this callback for
you so that you can test your application. However, for production, we require
your application to be reachable over the Internet. The URL we'll attempt to hit
is automatically inferred based on the request. There are mainly two reasons why
your app would not be reachable by the callback:

#### You're testing a production build locally.

In this case, you can use a tool like [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) or
[Cloudflare Tunnels](https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/get-started/create-remote-tunnel/)
to expose your application to the internet. Start the application with the
`UPLOADTHING_URL` variable set to the tunneled URL.

#### Your app is running behind a reverse proxy such as Nginx.

The automatic URL inference unfortunately breaks for certain reverse proxy
setups. In this case, set either the
[`config.callbackUrl`](/api-reference/next#config-object) when you're creating
the server entrypoints or the `UPLOADTHING_URL` environment variable to the
public URL of your application.

You will get a warning in the console if we detect a localhost URL is being used
as the callback URL in production.

### My callback runs in development and production, but not in Vercel preview deployments

By default, Vercel projects are configured to require authentication to access
preview deployments. This means that our external server cannot access your
application to trigger the callbacks you have set up in your file router.

To fix, this you can either disable this setting in your Vercel project, or—if
you are paying for Advanced Deployment Protection—set a
[custom header](https://vercel.com/docs/security/deployment-protection/methods-to-bypass-deployment-protection/protection-bypass-automation)
in the uploadthing dashboard that will allow uploadthing callbacks to bypass the
authentication.

#### Configuring a custom header in the uploadthing dashboard

1. Go to your project's dashboard on uploadthing.com
2. Navigate to the "Settings" tab
3. Click on "Advanced Settings"
4. Click on the "Add Header" button
5. Enter the header name and value
6. Click "Save Changes"

<Image
  src="/add-header-settings.png"
  alt="Screenshot of the uploadthing dashboard showing the 'Add Header' button"
  width="500"
  style={{ marginTop: "1rem", borderRadius: "0.5rem" }}
/>

Commit message:

add note about edge runtime limitation

docs/src/pages/faq.mdx, after:

import Image from "next/image";

### The UploadThing components look all weird, what's going on?

If your components appear unstyled, you likely forgot to import our CSS file
from the React package. Don't forget to add the following to your root
`layout.tsx` or `_app.tsx`:

```tsx
import "@uploadthing/react/styles.css";
```

### Some of my other components look weird now... what's up with that?

You may need to check the order of imports. Making sure that the uploadthing
component styles are imported before others usually does the trick

```tsx
import "@uploadthing/react/styles.css";
import "../styles/globals.css";
```

### When I upload files, I get the error `Failed to simulate callback for file. Is your webhook configured correctly?`

This error is our catch-all if we were unable to query the `/api/uploadthing`
endpoint. Almost every time we've seen someone who has this issue, it's because
their `middleware.ts` is configured incorrectly.

Make sure that `/api/uploadthing` is NOT blocked through your middleware. It
serves as both a validation endpoint for the client AND a webhook for the
`onUploadComplete` calls.""

If you are seeing this issue in development, and are using edge runtine, there
is a limitation in Next.js where it does not allow an edge function to fetch
itself, which is what the dev hook is doing (in production, the callback request
comes from Uploadthing's servers, so this is not an issue).

You can either ignore this error as it only affects the development environment,
or use the node runtime instead:

```ts
// src/app/api/uploadthing/route.ts
export const runtime = "nodejs";
```

### I'm getting a `Type ... is not assignable to type '"You forgot to pass the generic"'` error

This occurs when you're importing the `UploadButton` or `UploadDropzone`
components from `@uploadthing/react` or `@uploadthing/solid` directly, and not
[generating your own typesafe components](/api-reference/react#generateComponents)
using `generateComponents`. While you can do this, it is not recommended as you
have to provide the generics yourself in order to get full typesafety.

```tsx
import { UploadButton } from "@uploadthing/react";

import type { OurFileRouter } from "~/app/api/uploadthing/core";

<UploadButton<OurFileRouter, "myFileRoute">
  endpoint="myFileRoute"
  // ...
/>;
```

As you can see, it's quite cumbersome having to provide the generics yourself,
especially since the `endpoint` prop must be specified twice due to lack of
partial inference in TypeScript.

### My callback runs in development but not in production

In order for UploadThing to work, our external server must be able to reach your
application to trigger the callbacks you have set up in your file router. This
is not possible if your application is running on localhost.

When you're running in development, UploadThing will simulate this callback for
you so that you can test your application. However, for production, we require
your application to be reachable over the Internet. The URL we'll attempt to hit
is automatically inferred based on the request. There are mainly two reasons why
your app would not be reachable by the callback:

#### You're testing a production build locally.

In this case, you can use a tool like [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) or
[Cloudflare Tunnels](https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/get-started/create-remote-tunnel/)
to expose your application to the internet. Start the application with the
`UPLOADTHING_URL` variable set to the tunneled URL.

#### Your app is running behind a reverse proxy such as Nginx.

The automatic URL inference unfortunately breaks for certain reverse proxy
setups. In this case, set either the
[`config.callbackUrl`](/api-reference/next#config-object) when you're creating
the server entrypoints or the `UPLOADTHING_URL` environment variable to the
public URL of your application.

You will get a warning in the console if we detect a localhost URL is being used
as the callback URL in production.

### My callback runs in development and production, but not in Vercel preview deployments

By default, Vercel projects are configured to require authentication to access
preview deployments. This means that our external server cannot access your
application to trigger the callbacks you have set up in your file router.

To fix, this you can either disable this setting in your Vercel project, or—if
you are paying for Advanced Deployment Protection—set a
[custom header](https://vercel.com/docs/security/deployment-protection/methods-to-bypass-deployment-protection/protection-bypass-automation)
in the uploadthing dashboard that will allow uploadthing callbacks to bypass the
authentication.

#### Configuring a custom header in the uploadthing dashboard

1. Go to your project's dashboard on uploadthing.com
2. Navigate to the "Settings" tab
3. Click on "Advanced Settings"
4. Click on the "Add Header" button
5. Enter the header name and value
6. Click "Save Changes"

<Image
  src="/add-header-settings.png"
  alt="Screenshot of the uploadthing dashboard showing the 'Add Header' button"
  width="500"
  style={{ marginTop: "1rem", borderRadius: "0.5rem" }}
/>
