docs/src/pages/solid.mdx, before:

import { Callout, Steps } from "nextra-theme-docs";

# Getting Started

## Package Setup

<Steps>

### Install the packages

import { Tab, Tabs } from "nextra-theme-docs";

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<Tabs items={["npm", "yarn", "pnpm"]}>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy 
    npm install uploadthing @uploadthing/solid solidjs-dropzone
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy 
    yarn add uploadthing @uploadthing/solid solidjs-dropzone
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy 
    pnpm install uploadthing @uploadthing/solid solidjs-dropzone
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

### Add env variables

```bash copy
UPLOADTHING_SECRET=... # A secret key for your app (starts with sk_live_)
UPLOADTHING_APP_ID=... # Your app id
```

<Callout type="warning">
  If you don't already have a uploadthing secret key, [sign up](/create-account) and create one from
  the [dashboard!](https://uploadthing.com/dashboard)
</Callout>
</Steps>

## Set Up A FileRouter

<Steps>
### Creating your first FileRoute

All files uploaded to uploadthing are associated with a FileRoute. Think of a
FileRoute similar to an endpoint, it has:

- Permitted types ["image", "video", etc]
- Max file size
- (Optional) `middleware` to authenticate and tag requests
- `onUploadComplete` callback for when uploads are completed

```ts copy filename="src/server/uploadthing.ts"
import { createUploadthing } from "uploadthing/next";
import type { FileRouter } from "uploadthing/next";

const f = createUploadthing();

export const uploadRouter = {
  videoAndImage: f({
    image: {
      maxFileSize: "4MB",
      maxFileCount: 4,
    },
    video: {
      maxFileSize: "16MB",
    },
  })
    .middleware(() => ({}))
    .onUploadComplete((data) => {
      console.log("upload completed", data);
    }),

  withMdwr: f({
    image: {
      maxFileCount: 2,
      maxFileSize: "1MB",
    },
  })
    .middleware((req) => {
      const h = req.headers.get("someProperty");

      if (!h) throw new Error("someProperty is required");

      return {
        someProperty: h,
        otherProperty: "hello" as const,
      };
    })
    .onUploadComplete(({ metadata, file }) => {
      console.log("uploaded with the following metadata:", metadata);
      console.log("files successfully uploaded:", file);
    }),

  withoutMdwr: f({
    image: {
      maxFileCount: 2,
      maxFileSize: "16MB",
    },
  })
    .middleware(() => {
      return { testMetadata: "lol" };
    })
    .onUploadComplete(({ metadata, file }) => {
      console.log("uploaded with the following metadata:", metadata);
      console.log("files successfully uploaded:", file);
    }),
} satisfies FileRouter;

export type OurFileRouter = typeof uploadRouter;
```

### Create an API route using the FileRouter

<Callout type="warning">
  Note: This is the ONLY FILE WHERE THE PATH MATTERS. You need to serve this API
  from `/api/uploadthing` on your application.
</Callout>

```ts copy filename="src/api/uploadthing.ts"
import { createServerHandler } from "uploadthing/server";

import { uploadRouter } from "~/server/uploadthing";

export const { GET, POST } = createServerHandler({
  router: uploadRouter,
  config: {
    callbackUrl: `http://localhost:${process.env.PORT ?? 3000}/api/uploadthing`,
  },
});
```

### Creating The UploadThing Components (optional)

Generating components let's you pass your generic `FileRouter` once and then
have typesafe components everywhere, instead of having to pass the generic
everytime you mount a component, but you can also import the components
individually from `@uploadthing/solid`.

```ts copy filename="src/utils/uploadthing.ts"
import { generateComponents } from "@uploadthing/solid";

import type { OurFileRouter } from "~/server/uploadthing";

const url = `http://localhost:${process.env.PORT ?? 3000}`;

export const { UploadButton, UploadDropzone, Uploader } =
  generateComponents<OurFileRouter>(url);
```

### Use the FileRouter in your app

The `@uploadthing/solid` package includes an "Uploader" component that you can
simply drop into your app, and start uploading files immediately.

```tsx copy filename="src/routes/index.tsx"
import type { VoidComponent } from "solid-js";

import { Uploader } from "~/utils/uploadthing";
// You need to import our styles for the button to look right. Best to import in the root /layout.tsx but this is fine
import "@uploadthing/solid/styles.css";

const Home: VoidComponent = () => {
  return (
    <main class="flex min-h-screen flex-col items-center justify-center gap-16 p-24">
      <Uploader
        endpoint="withoutMdwr"
        onClientUploadComplete={(res) => {
          console.log(`onClientUploadComplete`, res);
          alert("Upload Completed");
        }}
        buttonMultiple
      />
    </main>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

</Steps>

### Use the FileRouter in your app

#### Uploader

The `@uploadthing/solid` package includes an "Uploader" component that you can
simply drop into your app, and start uploading files immediately.

```tsx copy
// You need to import our styles for the button to look right. Best to import in the root /layout.tsx but this is fine
import "@uploadthing/solid/styles.css";

import { type VoidComponent } from "solid-js";

import { Uploader } from "@uploadthing/solid";

import type { OurFileRouter } from "~/server/uploadthing";

const Home: VoidComponent = () => {
  return (
    <main class="flex min-h-screen flex-col items-center justify-center  gap-16 p-24">
      <Uploader<OurFileRouter>
        endpoint="imageUploader"
        // needed when server side rendering
        url="http://localhost:3000"
        onClientUploadComplete={() => {
          alert("Upload Completed");
        }}
      />
    </main>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

#### UploadButton

This is a SolidJS dropzone component that will be used to upload files when
clicking on it.

```tsx copy
// You need to import our styles for the button to look right. Best to import in the root /layout.tsx but this is fine
import "@uploadthing/solid/styles.css";

import { type VoidComponent } from "solid-js";

import { UploadButton } from "@uploadthing/solid";

import type { OurFileRouter } from "~/server/uploadthing";

const Home: VoidComponent = () => {
  return (
    <main class="flex min-h-screen flex-col items-center justify-center  gap-16 p-24">
      <UploadButton<OurFileRouter>
        endpoint="imageUploader"
        // needed when server side rendering
        url="http://localhost:3000"
        onClientUploadComplete={() => {
          alert("Upload Completed");
        }}
        onUploadError={(error: Error) => {
          // Do something with the error.
          alert(`ERROR! ${error.message}`);
        }}
      />
    </main>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

#### UploadDropzone

This is a SolidJS dropzone component that you can use to upload files, you can
drag files into it.

```tsx copy
// You need to import our styles for the button to look right. Best to import in the root /layout.tsx but this is fine
import "@uploadthing/solid/styles.css";

import { type VoidComponent } from "solid-js";

import { UploadDropzone } from "@uploadthing/solid";

import type { OurFileRouter } from "~/server/uploadthing";

const Home: VoidComponent = () => {
  return (
    <main class="flex min-h-screen flex-col items-center justify-center  gap-16 p-24">
      <UploadDropzone<OurFileRouter>
        endpoint="imageUploader"
        // needed when server side rendering
        url="http://localhost:3000"
        onClientUploadComplete={() => {
          alert("Upload Completed");
        }}
        onUploadError={(error: Error) => {
          // Do something with the error.
          alert(`ERROR! ${error.message}`);
        }}
      />
    </main>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

Commit message:

link to start more often, clean up pages and page names, delete create account page :( (#183)

docs/src/pages/solid.mdx, after:

import { Callout, Steps } from "nextra-theme-docs";

# Getting Started with SolidStart

Make sure you
[install the packages and get your env variables first](/getting-started)

## Package Setup

<Steps>

### Install the packages

import { Tab, Tabs } from "nextra-theme-docs";

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<Tabs items={["npm", "yarn", "pnpm"]}>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy 
    npm install uploadthing @uploadthing/solid solidjs-dropzone
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy 
    yarn add uploadthing @uploadthing/solid solidjs-dropzone
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy 
    pnpm install uploadthing @uploadthing/solid solidjs-dropzone
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

### Add env variables

```bash copy
UPLOADTHING_SECRET=... # A secret key for your app (starts with sk_live_)
UPLOADTHING_APP_ID=... # Your app id
```

<Callout type="warning">
  If you don't already have a uploadthing secret key, [sign up](/create-account) and create one from
  the [dashboard!](https://uploadthing.com/dashboard)
</Callout>
</Steps>

## Set Up A FileRouter

<Steps>
### Creating your first FileRoute

All files uploaded to uploadthing are associated with a FileRoute. Think of a
FileRoute similar to an endpoint, it has:

- Permitted types ["image", "video", etc]
- Max file size
- (Optional) `middleware` to authenticate and tag requests
- `onUploadComplete` callback for when uploads are completed

```ts copy filename="src/server/uploadthing.ts"
import { createUploadthing } from "uploadthing/next";
import type { FileRouter } from "uploadthing/next";

const f = createUploadthing();

export const uploadRouter = {
  videoAndImage: f({
    image: {
      maxFileSize: "4MB",
      maxFileCount: 4,
    },
    video: {
      maxFileSize: "16MB",
    },
  })
    .middleware(() => ({}))
    .onUploadComplete((data) => {
      console.log("upload completed", data);
    }),

  withMdwr: f({
    image: {
      maxFileCount: 2,
      maxFileSize: "1MB",
    },
  })
    .middleware((req) => {
      const h = req.headers.get("someProperty");

      if (!h) throw new Error("someProperty is required");

      return {
        someProperty: h,
        otherProperty: "hello" as const,
      };
    })
    .onUploadComplete(({ metadata, file }) => {
      console.log("uploaded with the following metadata:", metadata);
      console.log("files successfully uploaded:", file);
    }),

  withoutMdwr: f({
    image: {
      maxFileCount: 2,
      maxFileSize: "16MB",
    },
  })
    .middleware(() => {
      return { testMetadata: "lol" };
    })
    .onUploadComplete(({ metadata, file }) => {
      console.log("uploaded with the following metadata:", metadata);
      console.log("files successfully uploaded:", file);
    }),
} satisfies FileRouter;

export type OurFileRouter = typeof uploadRouter;
```

### Create an API route using the FileRouter

<Callout type="warning">
  Note: This is the ONLY FILE WHERE THE PATH MATTERS. You need to serve this API
  from `/api/uploadthing` on your application.
</Callout>

```ts copy filename="src/api/uploadthing.ts"
import { createServerHandler } from "uploadthing/server";

import { uploadRouter } from "~/server/uploadthing";

export const { GET, POST } = createServerHandler({
  router: uploadRouter,
  config: {
    callbackUrl: `http://localhost:${process.env.PORT ?? 3000}/api/uploadthing`,
  },
});
```

### Creating The UploadThing Components (optional)

Generating components let's you pass your generic `FileRouter` once and then
have typesafe components everywhere, instead of having to pass the generic
everytime you mount a component, but you can also import the components
individually from `@uploadthing/solid`.

```ts copy filename="src/utils/uploadthing.ts"
import { generateComponents } from "@uploadthing/solid";

import type { OurFileRouter } from "~/server/uploadthing";

const url = `http://localhost:${process.env.PORT ?? 3000}`;

export const { UploadButton, UploadDropzone, Uploader } =
  generateComponents<OurFileRouter>(url);
```

### Use the FileRouter in your app

The `@uploadthing/solid` package includes an "Uploader" component that you can
simply drop into your app, and start uploading files immediately.

```tsx copy filename="src/routes/index.tsx"
import type { VoidComponent } from "solid-js";

import { Uploader } from "~/utils/uploadthing";
// You need to import our styles for the button to look right. Best to import in the root /layout.tsx but this is fine
import "@uploadthing/solid/styles.css";

const Home: VoidComponent = () => {
  return (
    <main class="flex min-h-screen flex-col items-center justify-center gap-16 p-24">
      <Uploader
        endpoint="withoutMdwr"
        onClientUploadComplete={(res) => {
          console.log(`onClientUploadComplete`, res);
          alert("Upload Completed");
        }}
        buttonMultiple
      />
    </main>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

</Steps>

### Use the FileRouter in your app

#### Uploader

The `@uploadthing/solid` package includes an "Uploader" component that you can
simply drop into your app, and start uploading files immediately.

```tsx copy
// You need to import our styles for the button to look right. Best to import in the root /layout.tsx but this is fine
import "@uploadthing/solid/styles.css";

import { type VoidComponent } from "solid-js";

import { Uploader } from "@uploadthing/solid";

import type { OurFileRouter } from "~/server/uploadthing";

const Home: VoidComponent = () => {
  return (
    <main class="flex min-h-screen flex-col items-center justify-center  gap-16 p-24">
      <Uploader<OurFileRouter>
        endpoint="imageUploader"
        // needed when server side rendering
        url="http://localhost:3000"
        onClientUploadComplete={() => {
          alert("Upload Completed");
        }}
      />
    </main>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

#### UploadButton

This is a SolidJS dropzone component that will be used to upload files when
clicking on it.

```tsx copy
// You need to import our styles for the button to look right. Best to import in the root /layout.tsx but this is fine
import "@uploadthing/solid/styles.css";

import { type VoidComponent } from "solid-js";

import { UploadButton } from "@uploadthing/solid";

import type { OurFileRouter } from "~/server/uploadthing";

const Home: VoidComponent = () => {
  return (
    <main class="flex min-h-screen flex-col items-center justify-center  gap-16 p-24">
      <UploadButton<OurFileRouter>
        endpoint="imageUploader"
        // needed when server side rendering
        url="http://localhost:3000"
        onClientUploadComplete={() => {
          alert("Upload Completed");
        }}
        onUploadError={(error: Error) => {
          // Do something with the error.
          alert(`ERROR! ${error.message}`);
        }}
      />
    </main>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

#### UploadDropzone

This is a SolidJS dropzone component that you can use to upload files, you can
drag files into it.

```tsx copy
// You need to import our styles for the button to look right. Best to import in the root /layout.tsx but this is fine
import "@uploadthing/solid/styles.css";

import { type VoidComponent } from "solid-js";

import { UploadDropzone } from "@uploadthing/solid";

import type { OurFileRouter } from "~/server/uploadthing";

const Home: VoidComponent = () => {
  return (
    <main class="flex min-h-screen flex-col items-center justify-center  gap-16 p-24">
      <UploadDropzone<OurFileRouter>
        endpoint="imageUploader"
        // needed when server side rendering
        url="http://localhost:3000"
        onClientUploadComplete={() => {
          alert("Upload Completed");
        }}
        onUploadError={(error: Error) => {
          // Do something with the error.
          alert(`ERROR! ${error.message}`);
        }}
      />
    </main>
  );
};

export default Home;
```
