docs/src/pages/theming.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";

import { UploadButton, UploadDropzone } from "@uploadthing/react";

# Theming

## Components anatomy

### UploadButton

Simplified component structure:

```tsx
<div className={className} data-state={}>
  <label data-ut-element="button" data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}>
    <input />
    /button content goes here/
  </label>
  <div data-ut-element="allowed-content" data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}>
    /allowed content text goes here/
  </div>
</div>
```

<Callout type="info">
  UploadButton consists of three themable elements: `container`, `button` and
  `allowed content`.
</Callout>

<Callout type="warning">
  Note: UploadButton's button element is defined using `label`
</Callout>

import Image from "next/image";

<Image
  src="/upload-button-anatomy.png"
  alt="Upload button anatomy"
  width="1546"
  height="998"
  style={{ marginTop: "1rem", borderRadius: "0.5rem" }}
/>

### UploadDropzone

Simplified component structure:

```jsx
<div className={className} data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}>
  <svg data-ut-element="upload-icon" data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}>
    ...
  </svg>
  <label data-ut-element="label" data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}>
    {/* label content goes here */}
    <input disabled={!ready} />
  </label>
  <div data-ut-element="allowed-content" data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}>
    /allowed content goes here/
  </div>
  <button
    data-ut-element="button"
    data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}
    disabled={isUploading}
  >
    {/* button content goes here */}
  </button>
</div>
```

<Callout type="info">
  UploadDropzone consists of five themable elements: `container`, `upload icon`,
  `label`, `button` and `allowed content`.
</Callout>

<Callout type="warning">
  Note: While in UploadButton the button element is defined using `label`, in
  UploadDropzone it is defined using `button`. As an abstraction layer, button
  element in these two components have special data attribute applied:
  `data-ut-element="button"`.
</Callout>

<Image
  src="/upload-dropzone-anatomy.png"
  alt="Upload dropzone anatomy"
  width="2010"
  height="1594"
  style={{ marginTop: "1rem", borderRadius: "0.5rem" }}
/>

## Theming props

### `className`

Both UploadButton and UploadDropzone accepts a `className` prop. It allows you
to pass any additional classes to the component. All classes that are being
passed through this prop are going to be applied to the outermost element -
`container`.

### `appearance`

Both `UploadButton` and `UploadDropzone` accepts an `appearance` prop. It
accepts an object with keys that correspond to elements of component. The
interfaces for the `appearance` prop for `UploadButton` and `UploadDropzone`
are:

```ts
type StyleField =
  | string
  | CSSProperties
  | ((args: CallbackArguments) => string | CSSProperties);

type UploadButtonProps = {
  /* rest of props */
  appearance?: {
    container?: StyleField;
    button?: StyleField;
    allowedContent?: StyleField;
  };
};

type UploadDropzoneProps = {
  /* rest of props */
  appearance?: {
    container?: StyleField;
    uploadIcon?: StyleField;
    label?: StyleField;
    allowedContent?: StyleField;
    button?: StyleField;
  };
};
```

where the `CallbackArguments` is defined as (depending on the component):

```ts
type ButtonCallbackArguments = {
  ready: boolean;
  isUploading: boolean;
  uploadProgress: number;
  fileTypes: string[];
};

type DropzoneCallbackArguments = {
  ready: boolean;
  isUploading: boolean;
  uploadProgress: number;
  fileTypes: string[];
  isDragActive: boolean;
};
```

## How to theme

### With TailwindCSS

#### Configuring TailwindCSS

To leverage the best developer experience, we strongly recommend wrapping your
Tailwind config with our utility function `withUt`. This utility function adds
additional classes and variants used to style our components.

In addition, it also automatically sets the `content` option to include all the
necessary classes that the components uses. This allows you to avoid having
duplicated styles in your bundle. Therefore, when using `withUt`, you should not
import our stylesheet into your app. If you choose not to use `withUt`, you have
to import default stylesheet to make components look right.

```ts filename="tailwind.config.ts"
import { withUt } from "uploadthing/tw";

export default withUt({
  // your config goes here
});
```

```js filename="tailwind.config.js"
// @ts-check
const { withUt } = require("uploadthing/tw");

module.exports = withUt({
  // your config goes here
});
```

<Callout type="info">
  If you're not wrapping your config as shown above, you have to import our
  stylesheet into your app. Otherwise, components will not look right.

```ts filename="app/layout.tsx"
import "@uploadthing/react/styles.css";

// ...
```

</Callout>

#### Style using the `className` prop

`className` accepts any classes and will merge them using `tailwind-merge`,
meaning you can pass any class you like and it will be applied correctly,
overriding the default styles if necessary.

The `withUt` wrapper adds custom variants that you can leverage to easily target
different elements of the component and its state:

<div className="mx-auto w-max mt-4">

| Variant               | Description                                                       |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ut-button:`          | Applied to the button element.                                    |
| `ut-allowed-content:` | Applied to the allowed content element.                           |
| `ut-label:`           | Applied to the label element.                                     |
| `ut-upload-icon:`     | Applied to the upload icon element.                               |
| ---                   | ---                                                               |
| `ut-readying:`        | Applied to the container element when the component is readying.  |
| `ut-ready:`           | Applied to the container element when the component is ready.     |
| `ut-uploading:`       | Applied to the container element when the component is uploading. |

</div>

<Callout>
  If you're not using the `withUt` wrapper, the state variants can be applied
  using `data-[state="..."]:`
</Callout>

These variants and classes can be used in conjunction with each other to make
component match your design in the exact way you want.

```tsx
<UploadButton
    className="mt-4 ut-button:bg-red-500 ut-button:ut-readying:bg-red-500/50"
               |    └─ applied to button └─ applied to button when readying
               └─ applied to container
/>
```

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="ready"
  className="ut-button:bg-red-500 ut-button:ut-readying:bg-red-500/50 dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white mt-4"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
    button: "Ready",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="readying"
  className="ut-button:bg-red-500 ut-button:ut-readying:bg-red-500/50 dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white mt-4"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

```jsx
<UploadDropzone
    className="bg-slate-800 ut-label:text-lg ut-allowed-content:ut-uploading:text-red-300"
               |            |                └─ applied to allowed content when uploading
               |            └─ applied to label
               └─ applied to container

/>
```

<UploadDropzone
  __internal_state="ready"
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_dropzone_disabled
  __internal_show_button
  className="ut-label:text-lg ut-allowed-content:ut-uploading:text-red-300 ut-allowed-content:text-blue-100 mt-4 bg-slate-800"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
    button: "Ready",
  }}
/>

<UploadDropzone
  __internal_state="uploading"
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_dropzone_disabled
  __internal_show_button
  className="ut-label:text-lg ut-allowed-content:ut-uploading:text-red-300 mt-4 bg-slate-800"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

#### Style using the `appearance` prop

If you're not using the `withUt` wrapper, or prefer splitting your styles up a
bit, you can use the `appearance` prop to target the different elements of the
component.

```jsx
<UploadButton
  appearance={{
    button:
      "ut-ready:bg-green-500 ut-uploading:cursor-not-allowed rounded-r-none bg-red-500 bg-none after:bg-orange-400",
    container: "w-max flex-row rounded-md border-cyan-300 bg-slate-800",
    allowedContent:
      "flex h-8 flex-col items-center justify-center px-2 text-white",
  }}
/>
```

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="uploading"
  __internal_button_disabled
  appearance={{
    button:
      "ut-ready:bg-green-500 ut-uploading:cursor-not-allowed rounded-r-none bg-red-500 bg-none after:bg-orange-400",
    container: "mx-auto w-max flex-row rounded-md border-cyan-300 bg-slate-800",
    allowedContent:
      "flex h-8 flex-col items-center justify-center px-2 text-white",
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="ready"
  __internal_button_disabled
  appearance={{
    button:
      "ut-ready:bg-green-500 ut-uploading:cursor-not-allowed rounded-r-none bg-red-500 bg-none after:bg-orange-400",
    container:
      "mx-auto w-max flex-row rounded-md border-cyan-300 bg-slate-800 mt-4",
    allowedContent:
      "flex h-8 flex-col items-center justify-center px-2 text-white",
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
    button: "Upload files",
  }}
/>

### With custom classes

#### `className` prop

`className` prop accepts any classes so you can pass there anything you like.
When it comes to custom classes, you can use `data` attributes to target
specific elements of component.

```jsx
<UploadButton className="custom-class" />
```

```css
/* applied to container */
.custom-class {
  background-color: none;
}

/* applied to button */
.custom-class > *[data-ut-element="button"] {
  font-size: 1.6rem;
  color: rgb(0 0 0 / 1);
  background-color: rgb(239 68 68 / 1);
}

/* applied to button when uploading */
.custom-class > *[data-ut-element="button"][data-state="readying"] {
  background-color: rgb(239 68 68 / 0.5);
  color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  cursor: not-allowed;
}

/* applied to button when uploading */
.custom-class > *[data-ut-element="button"][data-state="uploading"] {
  background-color: rgb(239 68 68 / 0.5);
  color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  cursor: not-allowed;
}

/* applied to upload indicator when uploading */
.custom-class > *[data-ut-element="button"][data-state="uploading"]::after {
  background-color: rgb(234 88 12 / 1);
}
```

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="ready"
  __internal_button_disabled
  className="custom-class dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
    button: "Ready",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="readying"
  __internal_button_disabled
  className="custom-class dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
    button: "Readying",
  }}
  appearance={{
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="uploading"
  __internal_button_disabled
  className="custom-class dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
  __internal_upload_progress={40}
  appearance={{
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
  }}
/>

#### `appearance` prop

If you need, you can pass classes directly to specific elements of component or
provide a callback that will be called with current state of the component and
will return a string

```jsx
<UploadButton
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return `custom-button ${
        ready ? "custom-button-ready" : "custom-button-not-ready"
      } ${isUploading ? "custom-button-uploading" : ""}`;
    },
    container: "custom-container",
    allowedContent: "custom-allowed-content",
  }}
/>
```

```css
/* applied to container */
.custom-container {
  background-color: none;
  margin-top: 1rem;
}

/* applied to container when readying */
.custom-container[data-state="readying"] {
  background-color: none;
}

/* applied to button */
.custom-button {
  font-size: 1.6rem;
  color: rgb(0 0 0 / 1);
  background-color: rgb(239 68 68 / 1);
}

/* applied to button when uploading */
.custom-button-uploading {
  background-color: rgb(239 68 68 / 0.5);
  color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  cursor: not-allowed;
}

.custom-button-uploading::after {
  background-color: rgb(234 88 12 / 1) !important;
}

/* applied to button when ready */
.custom-button-ready {
  color: #ecfdf5;
}

/* applied to button when not ready */
.custom-button-not-ready {
  background-color: rgb(239 68 68 / 0.5);
  color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  cursor: not-allowed;
}
```

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="ready"
  __internal_button_disabled
  className="dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white"
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return `custom-button ${
        ready ? "custom-button-ready" : "custom-button-not-ready"
      } ${isUploading ? "custom-button-uploading" : ""}`;
    },
    container: "custom-container",
    allowedContent: "custom-allowed-content",
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
    button: "Upload files",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="readying"
  __internal_button_disabled
  className="dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white"
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return `custom-button ${
        ready ? "custom-button-ready" : "custom-button-not-ready"
      } ${isUploading ? "custom-button-uploading" : ""}`;
    },
    container: "custom-container",
    allowedContent: "custom-allowed-content",
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="uploading"
  __internal_button_disabled
  className="dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white"
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return `custom-button ${
        ready ? "custom-button-ready" : "custom-button-not-ready"
      } ${isUploading ? "custom-button-uploading" : ""}`;
    },
    container: "custom-container",
    allowedContent: "custom-allowed-content",
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
  __internal_upload_progress={40}
/>

### With inline styles

#### `appearance` prop

If you need, you can pass inline styles directly to specific elements of
component or provide a callback that will be called with current state of the
component and will return a `CSSProperties` object

```jsx
<UploadButton
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return {
        fontSize: "1.6rem",
        color: "black",
        ...(ready && { color: "#ecfdf5" }),
        ...(isUploading && { color: "#d1d5db" }),
      };
    },
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
    allowedContent: {
      color: "#a1a1aa",
    },
  }}
/>
```

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="readying"
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return {
        fontSize: "1.6rem",
        color: "black",
        ...(ready && { color: "#ecfdf5" }),
        ...(isUploading && { color: "#d1d5db" }),
      };
    },
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
    allowedContent: {
      color: "#a1a1aa",
    },
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="ready"
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return {
        fontSize: "1.6rem",
        color: "black",
        ...(ready && { color: "#ecfdf5" }),
        ...(isUploading && { color: "#d1d5db" }),
      };
    },
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
    allowedContent: {
      color: "#a1a1aa",
    },
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="uploading"
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return {
        fontSize: "1.6rem",
        color: "black",
        ...(ready && { color: "#ecfdf5" }),
        ...(isUploading && { color: "#d1d5db" }),
      };
    },
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
    allowedContent: {
      color: "#a1a1aa",
    },
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

## Content customisation

To customise content of `UploadButton` and `UploadDropzone`, you can use the
`content` prop that accepts an object with following shape:

```ts
type ContentField = ReactNode | ((args: CallbackArguments) => ReactNode);

type UploadButtonProps = {
  /* rest of props */
  content?: {
    button?: ContentField;
    allowedContent?: ContentField;
  };
};

type UploadDropzoneProps = {
  /* rest of props */
  content?: {
    uploadIcon?: ContentField;
    label?: ContentField;
    allowedContent?: ContentField;
    button?: ContentField;
  };
};
```

<Callout type="info">
  When you take over the `content` of an element, you get full responsibility to
  control the different states of the component. For example, if you customize
  the `button` element, we will not show a spinner when the component is
  uploading.
</Callout>

### Example

```jsx
<UploadButton
  content={{
    button({ ready }) {
      if (ready) return <div>Upload stuff</div>;

      return "Getting ready...";
    },
    allowedContent({ ready, fileTypes, isUploading }) {
      if (!ready) return "Checking what you allow";
      if (isUploading) return "Seems like stuff is uploading";
      return `Stuff you can upload: ${fileTypes.join(", ")}`;
    },
  }}
/>
```

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="readying"
  className="ut-allowed-content:text-zinc-500"
  content={{
    button({ ready }) {
      if (ready) return <div>Upload stuff</div>;

      return "Getting ready...";
    },
    allowedContent({ ready, fileTypes, isUploading }) {
      if (!ready) return "Checking what you allow";
      if (isUploading) return "Seems like stuff is uploading";
      return `Stuff you can upload: ${fileTypes.join(", ")}`;
    },

}} />

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="ready"
  content={{
    button({ ready }) {
      if (ready) return <div>Upload stuff</div>;

      return "Getting ready...";
    },
    allowedContent({ ready, fileTypes, isUploading }) {
      if (!ready) return "Checking what you allow";
      if (isUploading) return "Seems like stuff is uploading";
      return `Stuff you can upload: ${fileTypes.join(", ")}`;
    },

}}

appearance={{
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
    allowedContent: "text-zinc-500",
  }} />

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="uploading"
  __internal_ready={true}
  content={{
    button({ ready }) {
      if (ready) return <div>Upload stuff</div>;

      return "Getting ready...";
    },
    allowedContent({ ready, fileTypes, isUploading }) {
      if (!ready) return "Checking what you allow";
      if (isUploading) return "Seems like stuff is uploading";
      return `Stuff you can upload: ${fileTypes.join(", ")}`;
    },

}}

appearance={{
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
    allowedContent: "text-zinc-500",
  }} />

Commit message:

feat: Solid custom styling and content (#298)
Co-authored-by: Vladislav Zimnikov <vladislavzimnikov@Vladislavs-MacBook-Pro.local>
Co-authored-by: juliusmarminge <julius0216@outlook.com>

docs/src/pages/theming.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";

import { UploadButton, UploadDropzone } from "@uploadthing/react";

# Theming

## Components anatomy

### UploadButton

Simplified component structure:

```tsx
<div className={className} data-state={}>
  <label data-ut-element="button" data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}>
    <input />
    /button content goes here/
  </label>
  <div data-ut-element="allowed-content" data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}>
    /allowed content text goes here/
  </div>
</div>
```

<Callout type="info">
  UploadButton consists of three themable elements: `container`, `button` and
  `allowed content`.
</Callout>

<Callout type="warning">
  Note: UploadButton's button element is defined using `label`
</Callout>

import Image from "next/image";

<Image
  src="/upload-button-anatomy.png"
  alt="Upload button anatomy"
  width="1546"
  height="998"
  style={{ marginTop: "1rem", borderRadius: "0.5rem" }}
/>

### UploadDropzone

Simplified component structure:

```jsx
<div className={className} data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}>
  <svg data-ut-element="upload-icon" data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}>
    ...
  </svg>
  <label data-ut-element="label" data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}>
    {/* label content goes here */}
    <input disabled={!ready} />
  </label>
  <div data-ut-element="allowed-content" data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}>
    /allowed content goes here/
  </div>
  <button
    data-ut-element="button"
    data-state={/* "ready" | "readying" | "uploading" */}
    disabled={isUploading}
  >
    {/* button content goes here */}
  </button>
</div>
```

<Callout type="info">
  UploadDropzone consists of five themable elements: `container`, `upload icon`,
  `label`, `button` and `allowed content`.
</Callout>

<Callout type="warning">
  Note: While in UploadButton the button element is defined using `label`, in
  UploadDropzone it is defined using `button`. As an abstraction layer, button
  element in these two components have special data attribute applied:
  `data-ut-element="button"`.
</Callout>

<Image
  src="/upload-dropzone-anatomy.png"
  alt="Upload dropzone anatomy"
  width="2010"
  height="1594"
  style={{ marginTop: "1rem", borderRadius: "0.5rem" }}
/>

## Theming props

### `className`

Both UploadButton and UploadDropzone accepts a `className` prop. It allows you
to pass any additional classes to the component. All classes that are being
passed through this prop are going to be applied to the outermost element -
`container`.

### `appearance`

Both `UploadButton` and `UploadDropzone` accepts an `appearance` prop. It
accepts an object with keys that correspond to elements of component. The
interfaces for the `appearance` prop for `UploadButton` and `UploadDropzone`
are:

```ts
type StyleField =
  | string
  | CSSProperties
  | ((args: CallbackArguments) => string | CSSProperties);

type UploadButtonProps = {
  /* rest of props */
  appearance?: {
    container?: StyleField;
    button?: StyleField;
    allowedContent?: StyleField;
  };
};

type UploadDropzoneProps = {
  /* rest of props */
  appearance?: {
    container?: StyleField;
    uploadIcon?: StyleField;
    label?: StyleField;
    allowedContent?: StyleField;
    button?: StyleField;
  };
};
```

where the `CallbackArguments` is defined as (depending on the component):

<Callout type="info">
  For `Signal`-based frameworks, such as
  [Solid.js](https://www.solidjs.com/tutorial/introduction_signals), the
  attributes of the interfaces are getter-methods. For example, the
  `ButtonCallbackArguments.ready: boolean` property is a getter-method
  `ButtonCallbackArguments.ready(): boolean` in Solid.js.
</Callout>

```ts
type ButtonCallbackArguments = {
  ready: boolean;
  isUploading: boolean;
  uploadProgress: number;
  fileTypes: string[];
};

type DropzoneCallbackArguments = {
  ready: boolean;
  isUploading: boolean;
  uploadProgress: number;
  fileTypes: string[];
  isDragActive: boolean;
};
```

## How to theme

### With TailwindCSS

#### Configuring TailwindCSS

To leverage the best developer experience, we strongly recommend wrapping your
Tailwind config with our utility function `withUt`. This utility function adds
additional classes and variants used to style our components.

In addition, it also automatically sets the `content` option to include all the
necessary classes that the components uses. This allows you to avoid having
duplicated styles in your bundle. Therefore, when using `withUt`, you should not
import our stylesheet into your app. If you choose not to use `withUt`, you have
to import default stylesheet to make components look right.

```ts filename="tailwind.config.ts"
import { withUt } from "uploadthing/tw";

export default withUt({
  // your config goes here
});
```

```js filename="tailwind.config.js"
// @ts-check
const { withUt } = require("uploadthing/tw");

module.exports = withUt({
  // your config goes here
});
```

<Callout type="info">
  If you're not wrapping your config as shown above, you have to import our
  stylesheet into your app. Otherwise, components will not look right.

```ts filename="app/layout.tsx"
import "@uploadthing/react/styles.css";

// ...
```

</Callout>

#### Style using the `className` prop

`className` accepts any classes and will merge them using `tailwind-merge`,
meaning you can pass any class you like and it will be applied correctly,
overriding the default styles if necessary.

The `withUt` wrapper adds custom variants that you can leverage to easily target
different elements of the component and its state:

<div className="mx-auto w-max mt-4">

| Variant               | Description                                                       |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ut-button:`          | Applied to the button element.                                    |
| `ut-allowed-content:` | Applied to the allowed content element.                           |
| `ut-label:`           | Applied to the label element.                                     |
| `ut-upload-icon:`     | Applied to the upload icon element.                               |
| ---                   | ---                                                               |
| `ut-readying:`        | Applied to the container element when the component is readying.  |
| `ut-ready:`           | Applied to the container element when the component is ready.     |
| `ut-uploading:`       | Applied to the container element when the component is uploading. |

</div>

<Callout>
  If you're not using the `withUt` wrapper, the state variants can be applied
  using `data-[state="..."]:`
</Callout>

These variants and classes can be used in conjunction with each other to make
component match your design in the exact way you want.

```tsx
<UploadButton
    className="mt-4 ut-button:bg-red-500 ut-button:ut-readying:bg-red-500/50"
               |    └─ applied to button └─ applied to button when readying
               └─ applied to container
/>
```

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="ready"
  className="ut-button:bg-red-500 ut-button:ut-readying:bg-red-500/50 dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white mt-4"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
    button: "Ready",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="readying"
  className="ut-button:bg-red-500 ut-button:ut-readying:bg-red-500/50 dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white mt-4"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

```jsx
<UploadDropzone
    className="bg-slate-800 ut-label:text-lg ut-allowed-content:ut-uploading:text-red-300"
               |            |                └─ applied to allowed content when uploading
               |            └─ applied to label
               └─ applied to container

/>
```

<UploadDropzone
  __internal_state="ready"
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_dropzone_disabled
  __internal_show_button
  className="ut-label:text-lg ut-allowed-content:ut-uploading:text-red-300 ut-allowed-content:text-blue-100 mt-4 bg-slate-800"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
    button: "Ready",
  }}
/>

<UploadDropzone
  __internal_state="uploading"
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_dropzone_disabled
  __internal_show_button
  className="ut-label:text-lg ut-allowed-content:ut-uploading:text-red-300 mt-4 bg-slate-800"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

#### Style using the `appearance` prop

If you're not using the `withUt` wrapper, or prefer splitting your styles up a
bit, you can use the `appearance` prop to target the different elements of the
component.

```jsx
<UploadButton
  appearance={{
    button:
      "ut-ready:bg-green-500 ut-uploading:cursor-not-allowed rounded-r-none bg-red-500 bg-none after:bg-orange-400",
    container: "w-max flex-row rounded-md border-cyan-300 bg-slate-800",
    allowedContent:
      "flex h-8 flex-col items-center justify-center px-2 text-white",
  }}
/>
```

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="uploading"
  __internal_button_disabled
  appearance={{
    button:
      "ut-ready:bg-green-500 ut-uploading:cursor-not-allowed rounded-r-none bg-red-500 bg-none after:bg-orange-400",
    container: "mx-auto w-max flex-row rounded-md border-cyan-300 bg-slate-800",
    allowedContent:
      "flex h-8 flex-col items-center justify-center px-2 text-white",
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="ready"
  __internal_button_disabled
  appearance={{
    button:
      "ut-ready:bg-green-500 ut-uploading:cursor-not-allowed rounded-r-none bg-red-500 bg-none after:bg-orange-400",
    container:
      "mx-auto w-max flex-row rounded-md border-cyan-300 bg-slate-800 mt-4",
    allowedContent:
      "flex h-8 flex-col items-center justify-center px-2 text-white",
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
    button: "Upload files",
  }}
/>

### With custom classes

#### `className` prop

`className` prop accepts any classes so you can pass there anything you like.
When it comes to custom classes, you can use `data` attributes to target
specific elements of component.

```jsx
<UploadButton className="custom-class" />
```

```css
/* applied to container */
.custom-class {
  background-color: none;
}

/* applied to button */
.custom-class > *[data-ut-element="button"] {
  font-size: 1.6rem;
  color: rgb(0 0 0 / 1);
  background-color: rgb(239 68 68 / 1);
}

/* applied to button when uploading */
.custom-class > *[data-ut-element="button"][data-state="readying"] {
  background-color: rgb(239 68 68 / 0.5);
  color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  cursor: not-allowed;
}

/* applied to button when uploading */
.custom-class > *[data-ut-element="button"][data-state="uploading"] {
  background-color: rgb(239 68 68 / 0.5);
  color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  cursor: not-allowed;
}

/* applied to upload indicator when uploading */
.custom-class > *[data-ut-element="button"][data-state="uploading"]::after {
  background-color: rgb(234 88 12 / 1);
}
```

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="ready"
  __internal_button_disabled
  className="custom-class dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
    button: "Ready",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="readying"
  __internal_button_disabled
  className="custom-class dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
    button: "Readying",
  }}
  appearance={{
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="uploading"
  __internal_button_disabled
  className="custom-class dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white"
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
  __internal_upload_progress={40}
  appearance={{
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
  }}
/>

#### `appearance` prop

If you need, you can pass classes directly to specific elements of component or
provide a callback that will be called with current state of the component and
will return a string

```jsx
<UploadButton
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return `custom-button ${
        ready ? "custom-button-ready" : "custom-button-not-ready"
      } ${isUploading ? "custom-button-uploading" : ""}`;
    },
    container: "custom-container",
    allowedContent: "custom-allowed-content",
  }}
/>
```

```css
/* applied to container */
.custom-container {
  background-color: none;
  margin-top: 1rem;
}

/* applied to container when readying */
.custom-container[data-state="readying"] {
  background-color: none;
}

/* applied to button */
.custom-button {
  font-size: 1.6rem;
  color: rgb(0 0 0 / 1);
  background-color: rgb(239 68 68 / 1);
}

/* applied to button when uploading */
.custom-button-uploading {
  background-color: rgb(239 68 68 / 0.5);
  color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  cursor: not-allowed;
}

.custom-button-uploading::after {
  background-color: rgb(234 88 12 / 1) !important;
}

/* applied to button when ready */
.custom-button-ready {
  color: #ecfdf5;
}

/* applied to button when not ready */
.custom-button-not-ready {
  background-color: rgb(239 68 68 / 0.5);
  color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  cursor: not-allowed;
}
```

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="ready"
  __internal_button_disabled
  className="dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white"
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return `custom-button ${
        ready ? "custom-button-ready" : "custom-button-not-ready"
      } ${isUploading ? "custom-button-uploading" : ""}`;
    },
    container: "custom-container",
    allowedContent: "custom-allowed-content",
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
    button: "Upload files",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="readying"
  __internal_button_disabled
  className="dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white"
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return `custom-button ${
        ready ? "custom-button-ready" : "custom-button-not-ready"
      } ${isUploading ? "custom-button-uploading" : ""}`;
    },
    container: "custom-container",
    allowedContent: "custom-allowed-content",
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_state="uploading"
  __internal_button_disabled
  className="dark:ut-allowed-content:text-white"
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return `custom-button ${
        ready ? "custom-button-ready" : "custom-button-not-ready"
      } ${isUploading ? "custom-button-uploading" : ""}`;
    },
    container: "custom-container",
    allowedContent: "custom-allowed-content",
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
  __internal_upload_progress={40}
/>

### With inline styles

#### `appearance` prop

If you need, you can pass inline styles directly to specific elements of
component or provide a callback that will be called with current state of the
component and will return a `CSSProperties` object

```jsx
<UploadButton
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return {
        fontSize: "1.6rem",
        color: "black",
        ...(ready && { color: "#ecfdf5" }),
        ...(isUploading && { color: "#d1d5db" }),
      };
    },
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
    allowedContent: {
      color: "#a1a1aa",
    },
  }}
/>
```

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="readying"
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return {
        fontSize: "1.6rem",
        color: "black",
        ...(ready && { color: "#ecfdf5" }),
        ...(isUploading && { color: "#d1d5db" }),
      };
    },
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
    allowedContent: {
      color: "#a1a1aa",
    },
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="ready"
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return {
        fontSize: "1.6rem",
        color: "black",
        ...(ready && { color: "#ecfdf5" }),
        ...(isUploading && { color: "#d1d5db" }),
      };
    },
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
    allowedContent: {
      color: "#a1a1aa",
    },
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="uploading"
  appearance={{
    button({ ready, isUploading }) {
      return {
        fontSize: "1.6rem",
        color: "black",
        ...(ready && { color: "#ecfdf5" }),
        ...(isUploading && { color: "#d1d5db" }),
      };
    },
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
    allowedContent: {
      color: "#a1a1aa",
    },
  }}
  content={{
    allowedContent: "Allowed content",
  }}
/>

## Content customisation

To customise content of `UploadButton` and `UploadDropzone`, you can use the
`content` prop that accepts an object with following shape:

> `ReactNode` in the type definitions below will be the equivalent depending on
> the framework you use, e.g. `JSX.Element` in Solid.js.

```ts
type ContentField = ReactNode | ((args: CallbackArguments) => ReactNode);

type UploadButtonProps = {
  /* rest of props */
  content?: {
    button?: ContentField;
    allowedContent?: ContentField;
  };
};

type UploadDropzoneProps = {
  /* rest of props */
  content?: {
    uploadIcon?: ContentField;
    label?: ContentField;
    allowedContent?: ContentField;
    button?: ContentField;
  };
};
```

<Callout type="info">
  When you take over the `content` of an element, you get full responsibility to
  control the different states of the component. For example, if you customize
  the `button` element, we will not show a spinner when the component is
  uploading.
</Callout>

### Example

```jsx
<UploadButton
  content={{
    button({ ready }) {
      if (ready) return <div>Upload stuff</div>;

      return "Getting ready...";
    },
    allowedContent({ ready, fileTypes, isUploading }) {
      if (!ready) return "Checking what you allow";
      if (isUploading) return "Seems like stuff is uploading";
      return `Stuff you can upload: ${fileTypes.join(", ")}`;
    },
  }}
/>
```

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="readying"
  className="ut-allowed-content:text-zinc-500"
  content={{
    button({ ready }) {
      if (ready) return <div>Upload stuff</div>;

      return "Getting ready...";
    },
    allowedContent({ ready, fileTypes, isUploading }) {
      if (!ready) return "Checking what you allow";
      if (isUploading) return "Seems like stuff is uploading";
      return `Stuff you can upload: ${fileTypes.join(", ")}`;
    },

}} />

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="ready"
  content={{
    button({ ready }) {
      if (ready) return <div>Upload stuff</div>;

      return "Getting ready...";
    },
    allowedContent({ ready, fileTypes, isUploading }) {
      if (!ready) return "Checking what you allow";
      if (isUploading) return "Seems like stuff is uploading";
      return `Stuff you can upload: ${fileTypes.join(", ")}`;
    },

}}

appearance={{
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
    allowedContent: "text-zinc-500",
  }} />

<UploadButton
  __internal_button_disabled
  __internal_state="uploading"
  __internal_ready={true}
  content={{
    button({ ready }) {
      if (ready) return <div>Upload stuff</div>;

      return "Getting ready...";
    },
    allowedContent({ ready, fileTypes, isUploading }) {
      if (!ready) return "Checking what you allow";
      if (isUploading) return "Seems like stuff is uploading";
      return `Stuff you can upload: ${fileTypes.join(", ")}`;
    },

}}

appearance={{
    container: {
      marginTop: "1rem",
    },
    allowedContent: "text-zinc-500",
  }} />
