docs/src/pages/api-reference/react.mdx, before:

## UploadButton

{/* TODO: add a picture */}

```tsx copy filename="app/example-uploader.tsx"
import { UploadButton } from "@uploadthing/react";

import { OurFileRouter } from "./api/uploadthing/core";

export const OurUploadButton = () => (
  <UploadButton<OurFileRouter>
    endpoint="imageUploader"
    onClientUploadComplete={(res) => {
      // Do something with the response
      console.log("Files: ", res);
      alert("Upload Completed");
    }}
    onUploadError={(error: Error) => {
      // Do something with the error.
      alert(`ERROR! ${error.message}`);
    }}
    onUploadBegin={(name) => {
      // Do something once upload begins
      console.log("Uploading: ", name);
    }}
  />
);
```

### Configuration

| Prop                   | Type     | Required                | Notes           | Description                                                                         |
| :--------------------- | :------- | :---------------------- | :-------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<FileRouter>`         | generic  | Yes                     |                 | The type from the FileRouter you defined in your backend                            |
| endpoint               | string   | Yes                     |                 | The name of the [route](./server#FileRouter) you want this button to upload to      |
| input                  | string   | If set on the fileroute | Added in `v5.0` | Object matching the input schema that was set for this endpoint in your File Router |
| onClientUploadComplete | function | No                      |                 | `{fileKey: string, fileUrl: string}[]` callback function when upload is completed   |
| onUploadError          | function | No                      |                 | callback function when upload fails                                                 |
| onUploadProgress       | function | No                      | Added in `v5.1` | callback function for upload progress                                               |
| onUploadBegin          | function | No                      | Added in `v5.4` | callback function for upload begin                                                  |

## UploadDropzone

```tsx copy filename="app/example-uploader.tsx"
import { UploadDropzone } from "@uploadthing/react";

import { OurFileRouter } from "./api/uploadthing/core";

export const OurUploadDropzone = () => (
  <UploadDropzone<OurFileRouter>
    endpoint="withoutMdwr"
    onClientUploadComplete={(res) => {
      // Do something with the response
      console.log("Files: ", res);
      alert("Upload Completed");
    }}
    onUploadError={(error: Error) => {
      alert(`ERROR! ${error.message}`);
    }}
    onUploadBegin={(name) => {
      // Do something once upload begins
      console.log("Uploading: ", name);
    }}
  />
);
```

### Configuration

| Prop                   | Type               | Required                | Notes           | Description                                                                             |
| :--------------------- | :----------------- | :---------------------- | :-------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<FileRouter>`         | generic            | Yes                     |                 | The type from the FileRouter you defined in your backend                                |
| endpoint               | string             | Yes                     |                 | The name of the [route](./server#FileRouter) you want this button to upload to          |
| input                  | string             | If set on the fileroute | Added in `v5.0` | Object matching the input schema that was set for this endpoint in your File Router     |
| onClientUploadComplete | function           | No                      |                 | `{fileKey: string, fileUrl: string}[]` callback function when upload is completed       |
| onUploadError          | function           | No                      |                 | callback function when upload fails                                                     |
| onUploadProgress       | function           | No                      | Added in `v5.1` | callback function for upload progress                                                   |
| onUploadBegin          | function           | No                      | Added in `v5.4` | callback function for upload begin                                                      |
| config                 | object             | No                      | Added in `v5.4` | object to pass additional configuration for dropzone                                    |
| config.mode            | 'auto' \| 'manual' | No                      | Added in `v5.4` | mode of dropzone. 'manual' is default one. 'auto' triggers upload right after selection |

## generateReactHelpers

The `generateReactHelpers` function is used to generate the useUploadThing hook
and the uploadFiles functions you use to interact with UploadThing in custom
components. It takes your File Router as a generic

```tsx copy
import { generateReactHelpers } from "@uploadthing/react/hooks";

import type { OurFileRouter } from "~/app/api/uploadthing/core";

export const { useUploadThing, uploadFiles } =
  generateReactHelpers<OurFileRouter>();
```

## useUploadThing

This hook provides a function to start uploading, an `isUploading` state, and
the `permittedFileInfo` which gives information about what file types, sizes and
counts are allowed by the endpoint. See example below for a simple dropzone
using `react-dropzone` and the `useUploadThing` hook. For a more complete
example, take a look at
[our provided components](https://github.com/pingdotgg/uploadthing/blob/11c5ab317203c5e13253bd90c6d57075feaed06f/packages/react/src/component.tsx)

```tsx copy filename="app/example-custom-uploader.tsx"
// Note: `useUploadThing` is IMPORTED FROM YOUR CODEBASE using the `generateReactHelpers` function
import { useDropzone } from "react-dropzone";
import type { FileWithPath } from "react-dropzone";

import { useUploadThing } from "~/utils/uploadthing";

export function MultiUploader() {
  const [files, setFiles] = useState<File[]>([]);
  const onDrop = useCallback((acceptedFiles: FileWithPath[]) => {
    setFiles(acceptedFiles);
  }, []);

  const { getRootProps, getInputProps } = useDropzone({
    onDrop,
    accept: fileTypes ? generateClientDropzoneAccept(fileTypes) : undefined,
  });

  const { startUpload } = useUploadThing("myUploadEndpoint", {
    onClientUploadComplete: () => {
      alert("uploaded successfully!");
    },
    onUploadError: () => {
      alert("error occurred while uploading");
    },
    onUploadBegin: () => {
      alert("upload has begun");
    },
  });

  return (
    <div {...getRootProps()}>
      <input {...getInputProps()} />
      <div>
        {files.length > 0 && (
          <button onClick={() => startUpload(files)}>
            Upload {files.length} files
          </button>
        )}
      </div>
      Drop files here!
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Configuration

```tsx
const { startUpload, isUploading, permittedFileInfo } = useUploadThing(
  endpoint,
  opts: {
    onClientUploadComplete: ({fileKey: string, fileUrl: string}[]) => void
    onUploadError: (error: Error) => void
    onUploadProgress: (progress: number) => void
    onUploadBegin: (fileName: string) => void
  },
);
```

- `endpoint`: The name of the route you want this button to upload to

| Option                 | Type     | Required | Notes           | Description                                                                       |
| :--------------------- | :------- | :------- | :-------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onClientUploadComplete | function | No       |                 | `{fileKey: string, fileUrl: string}[]` callback function when upload is completed |
| onUploadError          | function | No       |                 | callback function when upload fails                                               |
| onUploadProgress       | function | No       | Added in `v5.1` | callback function for upload progress                                             |
| onUploadBegin          | function | No       | Added in `v5.4` | callback function for upload begin                                                |

### Returns

| Prop              | Type     | Description                                               |
| :---------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------------------------------- |
| startUpload       | function | `(files: File[]) => void` function to start a file upload |
| isUploading       | function | if file(s) are currently uploading                        |
| permittedFileInfo | function | information on permitted file types, sizes, and counts    |

## uploadFiles

```tsx copy
// Note: this is IMPORTED FROM YOUR CODEBASE using the `generateReactHelpers` function
import { uploadFiles } from "~/utils/uploadthing";

const uploadSomeFiles = async () => {
  const files = [
    new File(["foo"], "foo.txt", {
      type: "text/plain",
    }),
  ];

  const res = await uploadFiles({
    files,
    endpoint: "imageUploader",
    input: {}, // will be typesafe to match the input set for `imageUploader` in your FileRouter
  });
};
```

### Configuration

```tsx
uploadFiles(opts: {
  files: File[],
  endpoint: string,
  input?: {} // will be typesafe to match the input set for `endpoint` in your FileRouter
})
```

| Arguments | Type   | Required                | Notes           | Description                                                                         |
| :-------- | :----- | :---------------------- | :-------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| files     | File[] | Yes                     |                 | The files you intend to upload                                                      |
| endpoint  | string | Yes                     |                 | The name of the [route](./server#FileRouter) you want to upload to                  |
| input     | string | If set on the fileroute | Added in `v5.0` | Object matching the input schema that was set for this endpoint in your File Router |

Commit message:

docs: add code example for input (#304)

docs/src/pages/api-reference/react.mdx, after:

## UploadButton

{/* TODO: add a picture */}

```tsx copy filename="app/example-uploader.tsx"
import { UploadButton } from "@uploadthing/react";

import { OurFileRouter } from "./api/uploadthing/core";

export const OurUploadButton = () => (
  <UploadButton<OurFileRouter>
    endpoint="imageUploader"
    onClientUploadComplete={(res) => {
      // Do something with the response
      console.log("Files: ", res);
      alert("Upload Completed");
    }}
    onUploadError={(error: Error) => {
      // Do something with the error.
      alert(`ERROR! ${error.message}`);
    }}
    onUploadBegin={(name) => {
      // Do something once upload begins
      console.log("Uploading: ", name);
    }}
  />
);
```

### Configuration

| Prop                   | Type     | Required                | Notes           | Description                                                                         |
| :--------------------- | :------- | :---------------------- | :-------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<FileRouter>`         | generic  | Yes                     |                 | The type from the FileRouter you defined in your backend                            |
| endpoint               | string   | Yes                     |                 | The name of the [route](./server#FileRouter) you want this button to upload to      |
| input                  | string   | If set on the fileroute | Added in `v5.0` | Object matching the input schema that was set for this endpoint in your File Router |
| onClientUploadComplete | function | No                      |                 | `{fileKey: string, fileUrl: string}[]` callback function when upload is completed   |
| onUploadError          | function | No                      |                 | callback function when upload fails                                                 |
| onUploadProgress       | function | No                      | Added in `v5.1` | callback function for upload progress                                               |
| onUploadBegin          | function | No                      | Added in `v5.4` | callback function for upload begin                                                  |

## UploadDropzone

```tsx copy filename="app/example-uploader.tsx"
import { UploadDropzone } from "@uploadthing/react";

import { OurFileRouter } from "./api/uploadthing/core";

export const OurUploadDropzone = () => (
  <UploadDropzone<OurFileRouter>
    endpoint="withoutMdwr"
    onClientUploadComplete={(res) => {
      // Do something with the response
      console.log("Files: ", res);
      alert("Upload Completed");
    }}
    onUploadError={(error: Error) => {
      alert(`ERROR! ${error.message}`);
    }}
    onUploadBegin={(name) => {
      // Do something once upload begins
      console.log("Uploading: ", name);
    }}
  />
);
```

### Configuration

| Prop                   | Type               | Required                | Notes           | Description                                                                             |
| :--------------------- | :----------------- | :---------------------- | :-------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<FileRouter>`         | generic            | Yes                     |                 | The type from the FileRouter you defined in your backend                                |
| endpoint               | string             | Yes                     |                 | The name of the [route](./server#FileRouter) you want this button to upload to          |
| input                  | string             | If set on the fileroute | Added in `v5.0` | Object matching the input schema that was set for this endpoint in your File Router     |
| onClientUploadComplete | function           | No                      |                 | `{fileKey: string, fileUrl: string}[]` callback function when upload is completed       |
| onUploadError          | function           | No                      |                 | callback function when upload fails                                                     |
| onUploadProgress       | function           | No                      | Added in `v5.1` | callback function for upload progress                                                   |
| onUploadBegin          | function           | No                      | Added in `v5.4` | callback function for upload begin                                                      |
| config                 | object             | No                      | Added in `v5.4` | object to pass additional configuration for dropzone                                    |
| config.mode            | 'auto' \| 'manual' | No                      | Added in `v5.4` | mode of dropzone. 'manual' is default one. 'auto' triggers upload right after selection |

## generateReactHelpers

The `generateReactHelpers` function is used to generate the useUploadThing hook
and the uploadFiles functions you use to interact with UploadThing in custom
components. It takes your File Router as a generic

```tsx copy
import { generateReactHelpers } from "@uploadthing/react/hooks";

import type { OurFileRouter } from "~/app/api/uploadthing/core";

export const { useUploadThing, uploadFiles } =
  generateReactHelpers<OurFileRouter>();
```

## useUploadThing

This hook provides a function to start uploading, an `isUploading` state, and
the `permittedFileInfo` which gives information about what file types, sizes and
counts are allowed by the endpoint. See example below for a simple dropzone
using `react-dropzone` and the `useUploadThing` hook. For a more complete
example, take a look at
[our provided components](https://github.com/pingdotgg/uploadthing/blob/11c5ab317203c5e13253bd90c6d57075feaed06f/packages/react/src/component.tsx)

```tsx copy filename="app/example-custom-uploader.tsx"
// Note: `useUploadThing` is IMPORTED FROM YOUR CODEBASE using the `generateReactHelpers` function
import { useDropzone } from "react-dropzone";
import type { FileWithPath } from "react-dropzone";

import { useUploadThing } from "~/utils/uploadthing";

export function MultiUploader() {
  const [files, setFiles] = useState<File[]>([]);
  const onDrop = useCallback((acceptedFiles: FileWithPath[]) => {
    setFiles(acceptedFiles);
  }, []);

  const { getRootProps, getInputProps } = useDropzone({
    onDrop,
    accept: fileTypes ? generateClientDropzoneAccept(fileTypes) : undefined,
  });

  const { startUpload } = useUploadThing("myUploadEndpoint", {
    onClientUploadComplete: () => {
      alert("uploaded successfully!");
    },
    onUploadError: () => {
      alert("error occurred while uploading");
    },
    onUploadBegin: () => {
      alert("upload has begun");
    },
  });

  return (
    <div {...getRootProps()}>
      <input {...getInputProps()} />
      <div>
        {files.length > 0 && (
          <button onClick={() => startUpload(files)}>
            Upload {files.length} files
          </button>
        )}
      </div>
      Drop files here!
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Configuration

```tsx
const { startUpload, isUploading, permittedFileInfo } = useUploadThing(
  endpoint,
  opts: {
    onClientUploadComplete: ({fileKey: string, fileUrl: string}[]) => void
    onUploadError: (error: Error) => void
    onUploadProgress: (progress: number) => void
    onUploadBegin: (fileName: string) => void
  },
);
```

- `endpoint`: The name of the route you want this button to upload to

| Option                 | Type     | Required | Notes           | Description                                                                       |
| :--------------------- | :------- | :------- | :-------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onClientUploadComplete | function | No       |                 | `{fileKey: string, fileUrl: string}[]` callback function when upload is completed |
| onUploadError          | function | No       |                 | callback function when upload fails                                               |
| onUploadProgress       | function | No       | Added in `v5.1` | callback function for upload progress                                             |
| onUploadBegin          | function | No       | Added in `v5.4` | callback function for upload begin                                                |

### Returns

| Prop              | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                |
| :---------------- | :------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| startUpload       | function | `(files: File[], input?: TInput) => void` function to start a file upload. `TInput` is inferred from what you've defined on [the fileroute](/api-reference/server#input-1) on the backend. |
| isUploading       | function | if file(s) are currently uploading                                                                                                                                                         |
| permittedFileInfo | function | information on permitted file types, sizes, and counts                                                                                                                                     |

## uploadFiles

```tsx copy
// Note: this is IMPORTED FROM YOUR CODEBASE using the `generateReactHelpers` function
import { uploadFiles } from "~/utils/uploadthing";

const uploadSomeFiles = async () => {
  const files = [
    new File(["foo"], "foo.txt", {
      type: "text/plain",
    }),
  ];

  const res = await uploadFiles({
    files,
    endpoint: "imageUploader",
    input: {}, // will be typesafe to match the input set for `imageUploader` in your FileRouter
  });
};
```

### Configuration

```tsx
uploadFiles(opts: {
  files: File[],
  endpoint: string,
  input?: {} // will be typesafe to match the input set for `endpoint` in your FileRouter
})
```

| Arguments | Type   | Required                | Notes           | Description                                                                         |
| :-------- | :----- | :---------------------- | :-------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| files     | File[] | Yes                     |                 | The files you intend to upload                                                      |
| endpoint  | string | Yes                     |                 | The name of the [route](./server#FileRouter) you want to upload to                  |
| input     | string | If set on the fileroute | Added in `v5.0` | Object matching the input schema that was set for this endpoint in your File Router |
