docs/src/pages/api-reference/server.mdx, before:

import { Callout, Tab, Tabs } from "nextra-theme-docs";

## createUploadthing

The helper function to create an UploadThing instance. MAKE SURE YOU IMPORT IT
FROM THE RIGHT PLACE

<Tabs items={["Next App Router", "Next Pages Dir", "SolidJS", "Express"]}>
  <Tab>
    ```ts
    import { createUploadthing, type FileRouter } from "uploadthing/next";

    const f = createUploadthing();
    export const uploadRouter = { ... };
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```ts
    import { createUploadthing, type FileRouter } from "uploadthing/next-legacy";

    const f = createUploadthing();
    export const uploadRouter = { ... };
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```ts
    import { createUploadthing, type FileRouter } from "uploadthing";

    const f = createUploadthing();
    export const uploadRouter = { ... };
    ```

  </Tab>

  <Tab>
    ```ts
    import { createUploadthing, type FileRouter } from "uploadthing/express";

    const f = createUploadthing();
    export const uploadRouter = { ... };
    ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## File Routes

File Routes are the routes you create with the helped instantiated by
`createUploadthing`. Think of them as the "endpoints" for what your users can
upload. The keys in the object are the names of your endpoints.

```ts
import { createUploadthing, type FileRouter } from "uploadthing/next";

const f = createUploadthing();

export const ourFileRouter = {
  // Example "profile picture upload" route - these can be named whatever you want!
  profilePicture: f(["image"])
    .middleware(({ req }) => auth(req))
    .onUploadComplete((data) => console.log("file", data)),

  // This route takes an attached image OR video
  messageAttachment: f(["image", "video"])
    .middleware(({ req }) => auth(req))
    .onUploadComplete((data) => console.log("file", data)),

  // Takes ONE image up to 2MB
  strictImageAttachment: f({ image: { maxFileSize: "2MB", maxFileCount: 1 } })
    .middleware(({ req }) => auth(req))
    .onUploadComplete((data) => console.log("file", data)),

  // Takes a 4 2mb images and/or 1 256mb video
  mediaPost: f({
    image: { maxFileSize: "2MB", maxFileCount: 4 },
    video: { maxFileSize: "256MB", maxFileCount: 1 },
  })
    .middleware(({ req }) => auth(req))
    .onUploadComplete((data) => console.log("file", data)),
} satisfies FileRouter;

export type OurFileRouter = typeof ourFileRouter;
```

### Input

```ts
// Your file types can be any of the following types
type MimeType = /** any web mime-type */
type ValidFileTypes = "image" | "video" | "audio" | "blob" | "pdf" | "text" | MimeType;
type ContentDisposition = "inline" | "attachment";

// The input to your f() function can be an array of file types OR an object of them w/ config
type FileRouterInput =
  | ValidFileTypes[]
  | {
      [key: ValidFileTypes]: {
        maxFileSize?: string;
        maxFileCount?: number;
        contentDisposition?: ContentDisposition = "inline";
      };
    };
```

The `contentDisposition` option can be used to override the default `inline`
disposition set at the storage provider. This is useful if you want your files
downloaded instead of previewed in the browser. You can read more about content
disposition on
[MDN ↗](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Disposition).

### Defaults

All routes default to a max file count of 1. The file size defaults are below

| File Type | Default Max Size |
| :-------- | :--------------- |
| image     | 4MB              |
| video     | 16MB             |
| audio     | 8MB              |
| blob      | 8MB              |
| pdf       | 4MB              |
| text      | 64kB             |
| MimeType  | 4MB              |

### `input`

You can pass a `zod` schema to validate user input from the client. This data
comes from the client when the upload starts. If validation here fails, an error
will be thrown and none of your `middleware` n'or `onUploadComplete` functions
will be executed.

The input is validated on **your** server and only leaves your server if you
pass it along from the `.middleware` to the `.onUploadComplete`. If you only use
the input in the middleware without returning it, the Uploadthing server won't
have any knowledge of it.

```ts
import { z } from "zod";

f(["image"])
  .input(z.object({ foo: z.string() }))
  .middleware(async ({ req, input }) => {
    input;
    // ^? { foo: string }
    return {};
  })
  .onUploadComplete(async () => {});
```

### `middleware`

This is the function where you authorize a user to do an upload. You can also
tag the upload with metadata here. Example using Clerk:

```ts
import { currentUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";

f(["image"])
  .middleware(async ({ req, res }) => {
    const user = await currentUser();

    // Throw if user isn't signed in
    if (!user)
      throw new Error("You must be logged in to upload a profile picture");

    // Return userId to be used in onUploadComplete
    return { userId: user.id };
  })
  .onUploadComplete(async ({ metadata }) => {
    console.log("Uploaded by user", metadata.userId);
  });
```

### `onUploadComplete`

This is the function you use to do something with the uploaded file, such as
persisting it to your database. Whatever you returned in the middleware will be
accessible here

## `UTApi`

The UploadThing API Helper, for use ON YOUR SERVER. It's basically just a REST
API but better.

To get started, initialize an instance of `UTApi`.

<Callout type="info">
  Prior to `v5.7`, this was exported as a regular object called `utapi` without
  any custom intialization support.
</Callout>

```ts filename="~/server/uploadthing.ts"
import { UTApi } from "uploadthing/server";

export const utapi = new UTApi();
```

The constructor takes some optional arguments that you can pass to override the
defaults. Below are shown the available options, the default values, and the
types of the values.

```ts
{
  fetch: FetchEsque = globalThis.fetch; // subset of standard fetch required for uploadthing
  apiKey: string = process.env.UPLOADTHING_SECRET;
}
```

### `uploadFiles`

> Added in `v5.3`

Upload files directly from your server **without** using the file router. Useful
for server-side file processing, uploading from a server action, and much more.

```tsx
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

async function uploadFiles(formData: FormData) {
  "use server";
  const files = formData.getAll("files");
  const response = await utapi.uploadFiles(files);
  //    ^? UploadedFileResponse[]
}

function MyForm() {
  return (
    <form action={uploadFiles}>
      <input name="files" type="file" multiple />
      <button type="submit">Upload</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```

When uploading files using `uploadFiles`, the files must be present on your
server. Then presigned URLs are generated on our servers before the files can be
uploaded to the storage provider.

| Arguments          | Type                       | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                           |
| :----------------- | :------------------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| files              | FileEsque \|\| FileEsque[] | Yes      | The file(s) you want to upload                                                                                                                                        |
| metadata           | Json                       | No       | Metadata to attach to the file(s)                                                                                                                                     |
| contentDisposition | "inline" \| "attachment"   | No       | What [content disposition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Disposition) should be set on the storage provider. Defaults to `inline` |

```ts
// Edge / Node < 20 friendly File interface
interface FileEsque extends Blob {
  name: string;
}
```

The returned `UploadedFileResponse` is an object with the following shape. If
the `files` argument is an array, the returned value will be of type
`UploadedFileResponse[]`.

```ts
type UploadFileResponse =
  | { data: UploadData; error: null }
  | { data: null; error: UploadError };

type UploadData = {
  key: string;
  url: string;
  name: string;
  size: number;
};

type UploadError = {
  code: string;
  message: string;
  data: any;
};
```

### `uploadFilesFromUrl`

> Added in `v5.3`

Have a file hosted somewhere else you want to upload on UploadThing? This is the
function you're looking for.

<Callout type="warning">
  When uploading files from URL, the file is first downloaded on **your**
  server, before presigned URLs are created and the file is uploaded to the
  storage provider.
</Callout>

```tsx
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const fileUrl = "https://test.com/some.png";
const uploadedFile = await utapi.uploadFilesFromUrl(fileUrl);
//    ^? UploadedFileResponse

const fileUrls = ["https://test.com/some.png", "https://test.com/some2.png"];
const uploadedFiles = await utapi.uploadFilesFromUrl(fileUrls);
//    ^? UploadedFileResponse[]
```

| Arguments          | Type                                     | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                           |
| :----------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| urls               | URL \|\| string \|\| (URL \|\| string)[] | Yes      | The URL(s) of the file(s) you wish to upload                                                                                                                          |
| metadata           | Json                                     | No       | Metadata to attach to the file(s)                                                                                                                                     |
| contentDisposition | "inline" \| "attachment"                 | No       | What [content disposition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Disposition) should be set on the storage provider. Defaults to `inline` |

### `deleteFiles`

> Added in `v4.0`

`deleteFiles` takes in a fileKey or an array of fileKeys and deletes them from
the server.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

await utapi.deleteFiles("2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg");
await utapi.deleteFiles([
  "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
  "1649353b-04ea-48a2-9db7-31de7f562c8d_image2.jpg",
]);
```

| Arguments | Type                 | Required | Notes           | Description                                |
| :-------- | :------------------- | :------- | :-------------- | :----------------------------------------- |
| input     | string \|\| string[] | Yes      | Added in `v5.0` | The fileKey or fileKeys you want to delete |

### `getFileUrls`

> Added in `v4.0`

`getFileUrls` takes in a fileKey or an array of fileKeys and returns the URLs to
access them.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const oneUrl = await utapi.getFileUrls(
  "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
);
const multipleUrls = await utapi.getFileUrls([
  "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
  "1649353b-04ea-48a2-9db7-31de7f562c8d_image2.jpg",
]);
```

| Arguments | Type                 | Required | Notes           | Description                                      |
| :-------- | :------------------- | :------- | :-------------- | :----------------------------------------------- |
| input     | string \|\| string[] | Yes      | Added in `v5.0` | The fileKey or fileKeys you want to get URLs for |

### `listFiles`

> Added in `v5.3`

`listFiles` takes no input and returns an array of objects containing file ids
and keys for all files that have been uploaded to the application your API key
corresponds to.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const files = await utapi.listFiles();

console.log(files);
/*
 * [
 *  {
 *    id: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8",
 *    key: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg"
 *  }
 * ]
 */
```

### `renameFiles`

> Added in `v5.3`

`renameFiles` takes in a `Rename` or an array of `Rename`s and renames the
appropriate files on the server.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

await utapi.renameFiles({
  fileKey: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
  newName: "myImage.jpg",
});

await utapi.renameFiles([
  {
    fileKey: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
    newName: "myImage.jpg",
  },
  {
    fileKey: "1649353b-04ea-48a2-9db7-31de7f562c8d_image2.jpg",
    newName: "myOtherImage.jpg",
  },
]);
```

#### `Rename` type definition

```ts
type Rename = {
  fileKey: string;
  newName: string; // should include file extension
};
```

| Arguments | Type                 | Required | Description                                            |
| :-------- | :------------------- | :------- | :----------------------------------------------------- |
| renames   | Rename \|\| Rename[] | Yes      | Object specifying what file to rename and the new name |

Commit message:

feat!: support returning data from server callback (#351)
Co-authored-by: Mark R. Florkowski <mark.florkowski@gmail.com>

docs/src/pages/api-reference/server.mdx, after:

import { Callout, Tab, Tabs } from "nextra-theme-docs";

## createUploadthing

The helper function to create an UploadThing instance. MAKE SURE YOU IMPORT IT
FROM THE RIGHT PLACE

<Tabs items={["Next App Router", "Next Pages Dir", "SolidJS", "Express"]}>
  <Tab>
    ```ts
    import { createUploadthing, type FileRouter } from "uploadthing/next";

    const f = createUploadthing();
    export const uploadRouter = { ... };
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```ts
    import { createUploadthing, type FileRouter } from "uploadthing/next-legacy";

    const f = createUploadthing();
    export const uploadRouter = { ... };
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```ts
    import { createUploadthing, type FileRouter } from "uploadthing";

    const f = createUploadthing();
    export const uploadRouter = { ... };
    ```

  </Tab>

  <Tab>
    ```ts
    import { createUploadthing, type FileRouter } from "uploadthing/express";

    const f = createUploadthing();
    export const uploadRouter = { ... };
    ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## File Routes

File Routes are the routes you create with the helped instantiated by
`createUploadthing`. Think of them as the "endpoints" for what your users can
upload. The keys in the object are the names of your endpoints.

```ts
import { createUploadthing, type FileRouter } from "uploadthing/next";

const f = createUploadthing();

export const ourFileRouter = {
  // Example "profile picture upload" route - these can be named whatever you want!
  profilePicture: f(["image"])
    .middleware(({ req }) => auth(req))
    .onUploadComplete((data) => console.log("file", data)),

  // This route takes an attached image OR video
  messageAttachment: f(["image", "video"])
    .middleware(({ req }) => auth(req))
    .onUploadComplete((data) => console.log("file", data)),

  // Takes ONE image up to 2MB
  strictImageAttachment: f({ image: { maxFileSize: "2MB", maxFileCount: 1 } })
    .middleware(({ req }) => auth(req))
    .onUploadComplete((data) => console.log("file", data)),

  // Takes a 4 2mb images and/or 1 256mb video
  mediaPost: f({
    image: { maxFileSize: "2MB", maxFileCount: 4 },
    video: { maxFileSize: "256MB", maxFileCount: 1 },
  })
    .middleware(({ req }) => auth(req))
    .onUploadComplete((data) => console.log("file", data)),
} satisfies FileRouter;

export type OurFileRouter = typeof ourFileRouter;
```

### Input

```ts
// Your file types can be any of the following types
type MimeType = /** any web mime-type */
type ValidFileTypes = "image" | "video" | "audio" | "blob" | "pdf" | "text" | MimeType;
type ContentDisposition = "inline" | "attachment";

// The input to your f() function can be an array of file types OR an object of them w/ config
type FileRouterInput =
  | ValidFileTypes[]
  | {
      [key: ValidFileTypes]: {
        maxFileSize?: string;
        maxFileCount?: number;
        contentDisposition?: ContentDisposition = "inline";
      };
    };
```

The `contentDisposition` option can be used to override the default `inline`
disposition set at the storage provider. This is useful if you want your files
downloaded instead of previewed in the browser. You can read more about content
disposition on
[MDN ↗](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Disposition).

### Defaults

All routes default to a max file count of 1. The file size defaults are below

| File Type | Default Max Size |
| :-------- | :--------------- |
| image     | 4MB              |
| video     | 16MB             |
| audio     | 8MB              |
| blob      | 8MB              |
| pdf       | 4MB              |
| text      | 64kB             |
| MimeType  | 4MB              |

### `input`

You can pass a `zod` schema to validate user input from the client. This data
comes from the client when the upload starts. If validation here fails, an error
will be thrown and none of your `middleware` n'or `onUploadComplete` functions
will be executed.

The input is validated on **your** server and only leaves your server if you
pass it along from the `.middleware` to the `.onUploadComplete`. If you only use
the input in the middleware without returning it, the Uploadthing server won't
have any knowledge of it.

```ts
import { z } from "zod";

f(["image"])
  .input(z.object({ foo: z.string() }))
  .middleware(async ({ req, input }) => {
    input;
    // ^? { foo: string }
    return {};
  })
  .onUploadComplete(async () => {});
```

### `middleware`

This is the function where you authorize a user to do an upload. You can also
tag the upload with metadata here. Example using Clerk:

```ts
import { currentUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";

f(["image"])
  .middleware(async ({ req, res }) => {
    const user = await currentUser();

    // Throw if user isn't signed in
    if (!user)
      throw new Error("You must be logged in to upload a profile picture");

    // Return userId to be used in onUploadComplete
    return { userId: user.id };
  })
  .onUploadComplete(async ({ metadata }) => {
    console.log("Uploaded by user", metadata.userId);
  });
```

### `onUploadComplete`

This is the function you use to do something with the uploaded file, such as
persisting it to your database. Whatever you returned in the middleware will be
accessible here.

You can return JSON serializable data from this function, which will be passed
to the clientside `onClientUploadComplete` callback.

## `UTApi`

The UploadThing API Helper, for use ON YOUR SERVER. It's basically just a REST
API but better.

To get started, initialize an instance of `UTApi`.

<Callout type="info">
  Prior to `v5.7`, this was exported as a regular object called `utapi` without
  any custom intialization support.
</Callout>

```ts filename="~/server/uploadthing.ts"
import { UTApi } from "uploadthing/server";

export const utapi = new UTApi();
```

The constructor takes some optional arguments that you can pass to override the
defaults. Below are shown the available options, the default values, and the
types of the values.

```ts
{
  fetch: FetchEsque = globalThis.fetch; // subset of standard fetch required for uploadthing
  apiKey: string = process.env.UPLOADTHING_SECRET;
}
```

### `uploadFiles`

> Added in `v5.3`

Upload files directly from your server **without** using the file router. Useful
for server-side file processing, uploading from a server action, and much more.

```tsx
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

async function uploadFiles(formData: FormData) {
  "use server";
  const files = formData.getAll("files");
  const response = await utapi.uploadFiles(files);
  //    ^? UploadedFileResponse[]
}

function MyForm() {
  return (
    <form action={uploadFiles}>
      <input name="files" type="file" multiple />
      <button type="submit">Upload</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```

When uploading files using `uploadFiles`, the files must be present on your
server. Then presigned URLs are generated on our servers before the files can be
uploaded to the storage provider.

| Arguments          | Type                       | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                           |
| :----------------- | :------------------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| files              | FileEsque \|\| FileEsque[] | Yes      | The file(s) you want to upload                                                                                                                                        |
| metadata           | Json                       | No       | Metadata to attach to the file(s)                                                                                                                                     |
| contentDisposition | "inline" \| "attachment"   | No       | What [content disposition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Disposition) should be set on the storage provider. Defaults to `inline` |

```ts
// Edge / Node < 20 friendly File interface
interface FileEsque extends Blob {
  name: string;
}
```

The returned `UploadedFileResponse` is an object with the following shape. If
the `files` argument is an array, the returned value will be of type
`UploadedFileResponse[]`.

```ts
type UploadFileResponse =
  | { data: UploadData; error: null }
  | { data: null; error: UploadError };

type UploadData = {
  key: string;
  url: string;
  name: string;
  size: number;
};

type UploadError = {
  code: string;
  message: string;
  data: any;
};
```

### `uploadFilesFromUrl`

> Added in `v5.3`

Have a file hosted somewhere else you want to upload on UploadThing? This is the
function you're looking for.

<Callout type="warning">
  When uploading files from URL, the file is first downloaded on **your**
  server, before presigned URLs are created and the file is uploaded to the
  storage provider.
</Callout>

```tsx
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const fileUrl = "https://test.com/some.png";
const uploadedFile = await utapi.uploadFilesFromUrl(fileUrl);
//    ^? UploadedFileResponse

const fileUrls = ["https://test.com/some.png", "https://test.com/some2.png"];
const uploadedFiles = await utapi.uploadFilesFromUrl(fileUrls);
//    ^? UploadedFileResponse[]
```

| Arguments          | Type                                     | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                           |
| :----------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| urls               | URL \|\| string \|\| (URL \|\| string)[] | Yes      | The URL(s) of the file(s) you wish to upload                                                                                                                          |
| metadata           | Json                                     | No       | Metadata to attach to the file(s)                                                                                                                                     |
| contentDisposition | "inline" \| "attachment"                 | No       | What [content disposition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Disposition) should be set on the storage provider. Defaults to `inline` |

### `deleteFiles`

> Added in `v4.0`

`deleteFiles` takes in a fileKey or an array of fileKeys and deletes them from
the server.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

await utapi.deleteFiles("2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg");
await utapi.deleteFiles([
  "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
  "1649353b-04ea-48a2-9db7-31de7f562c8d_image2.jpg",
]);
```

| Arguments | Type                 | Required | Notes           | Description                                |
| :-------- | :------------------- | :------- | :-------------- | :----------------------------------------- |
| input     | string \|\| string[] | Yes      | Added in `v5.0` | The fileKey or fileKeys you want to delete |

### `getFileUrls`

> Added in `v4.0`

`getFileUrls` takes in a fileKey or an array of fileKeys and returns the URLs to
access them.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const oneUrl = await utapi.getFileUrls(
  "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
);
const multipleUrls = await utapi.getFileUrls([
  "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
  "1649353b-04ea-48a2-9db7-31de7f562c8d_image2.jpg",
]);
```

| Arguments | Type                 | Required | Notes           | Description                                      |
| :-------- | :------------------- | :------- | :-------------- | :----------------------------------------------- |
| input     | string \|\| string[] | Yes      | Added in `v5.0` | The fileKey or fileKeys you want to get URLs for |

### `listFiles`

> Added in `v5.3`

`listFiles` takes no input and returns an array of objects containing file ids
and keys for all files that have been uploaded to the application your API key
corresponds to.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const files = await utapi.listFiles();

console.log(files);
/*
 * [
 *  {
 *    id: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8",
 *    key: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg"
 *  }
 * ]
 */
```

### `renameFiles`

> Added in `v5.3`

`renameFiles` takes in a `Rename` or an array of `Rename`s and renames the
appropriate files on the server.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

await utapi.renameFiles({
  fileKey: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
  newName: "myImage.jpg",
});

await utapi.renameFiles([
  {
    fileKey: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
    newName: "myImage.jpg",
  },
  {
    fileKey: "1649353b-04ea-48a2-9db7-31de7f562c8d_image2.jpg",
    newName: "myOtherImage.jpg",
  },
]);
```

#### `Rename` type definition

```ts
type Rename = {
  fileKey: string;
  newName: string; // should include file extension
};
```

| Arguments | Type                 | Required | Description                                            |
| :-------- | :------------------- | :------- | :----------------------------------------------------- |
| renames   | Rename \|\| Rename[] | Yes      | Object specifying what file to rename and the new name |
