docs/src/pages/api-reference/ut-api.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";

## `UTApi`

The UploadThing API Helper, for use ON YOUR SERVER. It's basically just a REST
API but better.

To get started, initialize an instance of `UTApi`.

<Callout type="info">
  Prior to `v5.7`, this was exported as a regular object called `utapi` without
  any custom intialization support.
</Callout>

```ts filename="~/server/uploadthing.ts"
import { UTApi } from "uploadthing/server";

export const utapi = new UTApi();
```

The constructor takes some optional arguments that you can pass to override the
defaults. Below are shown the available options, the default values, and the
types of the values.

```ts
export interface UTApiOptions {
  /**
   * Provide a custom fetch function.
   * @default globalThis.fetch
   */
  fetch?: FetchEsque;
  /**
   * Provide a custom UploadThing API key.
   * @default process.env.UPLOADTHING_SECRET
   */
  apiKey?: string;
  /**
   * @default "info"
   */
  logLevel?: LogLevel;
  /**
   * Set the default key type for file operations. Allows you to set your preferred filter
   * for file keys or custom identifiers without needing to specify it on every call.
   * @default "fileKey"
   */
  defaultKeyType?: "fileKey" | "customId";
}
```

### `uploadFiles`

> Added in `v5.3`

Upload files directly from your server **without** using the file router. Useful
for server-side file processing, uploading from a server action, and much more.

```tsx
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

async function uploadFiles(formData: FormData) {
  "use server";
  const files = formData.getAll("files");
  const response = await utapi.uploadFiles(files);
  //    ^? UploadedFileResponse[]
}

function MyForm() {
  return (
    <form action={uploadFiles}>
      <input name="files" type="file" multiple />
      <button type="submit">Upload</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```

When uploading files using `uploadFiles`, the files must be present on your
server. Then presigned URLs are generated on our servers before the files can be
uploaded to the storage provider.

| Arguments               | Type                       | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| files                   | FileEsque \|\| FileEsque[] | Yes      | The file(s) you want to upload                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| opts.metadata           | Json                       | No       | Metadata to attach to the file(s)                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| opts.contentDisposition | "inline" \| "attachment"   | No       | What [content disposition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Disposition) should be set on the storage provider. Defaults to `inline`                                                                         |
| opts.acl                | "public-read" \| "private" | No       | What [ACL](/regions-and-acl#access-controls) should be set on the storage provider. Defaults to whatever is [configured on your app settings](/regions-and-acl#configuring-acl) and can only be used if the app allows per-request overrides. |

```ts
// Edge / Node < 20 friendly File interface
interface FileEsque extends Blob {
  name: string;
  customId?: string;
}
```

The returned `UploadedFileResponse` is an object with the following shape. If
the `files` argument is an array, the returned value will be of type
`UploadedFileResponse[]`.

```ts
type UploadFileResponse =
  | { data: UploadData; error: null }
  | { data: null; error: UploadError };

type UploadData = {
  key: string;
  url: string;
  name: string;
  size: number;
};

type UploadError = {
  code: string;
  message: string;
  data: any;
};
```

### `uploadFilesFromUrl`

> Added in `v5.3`

Have a file hosted somewhere else you want to upload on UploadThing? This is the
function you're looking for.

<Callout type="warning">
  When uploading files from URL, the file is first downloaded on **your**
  server, before presigned URLs are created and the file is uploaded to the
  storage provider.
</Callout>

```tsx
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const fileUrl = "https://test.com/some.png";
const uploadedFile = await utapi.uploadFilesFromUrl(fileUrl);
//    ^? UploadedFileResponse

const fileUrls = ["https://test.com/some.png", "https://test.com/some2.png"];
const uploadedFiles = await utapi.uploadFilesFromUrl(fileUrls);
//    ^? UploadedFileResponse[]
```

| Arguments               | Type                                     | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| :---------------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| urls                    | URL \|\| string \|\| (URL \|\| string)[] | Yes      | The URL(s) of the file(s) you wish to upload                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| opts.metadata           | Json                                     | No       | Metadata to attach to the file(s)                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| opts.contentDisposition | "inline" \| "attachment"                 | No       | What [content disposition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Disposition) should be set on the storage provider. Defaults to `inline`                                                                         |
| opts.acl                | "public-read" \| "private"               | No       | What [ACL](/regions-and-acl#access-controls) should be set on the storage provider. Defaults to whatever is [configured on your app settings](/regions-and-acl#configuring-acl) and can only be used if the app allows per-request overrides. |

### `deleteFiles`

> Added in `v4.0`

`deleteFiles` takes in a fileKey or an array of fileKeys and deletes them from
the server.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

await utapi.deleteFiles("2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg");
await utapi.deleteFiles([
  "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
  "1649353b-04ea-48a2-9db7-31de7f562c8d_image2.jpg",
]);
await deleteFiles("myCustomIdentifier", { keyType: "customId" });
```

| Arguments    | Type                    | Required | Notes           | Description                                               |
| :----------- | :---------------------- | :------- | :-------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------- |
| input        | string \|\| string[]    | Yes      | Added in `v5.0` | The fileKey or fileKeys you want to delete                |
| opts.keyType | "fileKey" \| "customId" | No       | Added in `v6.4` | The type of key you are passing in. Defaults to `fileKey` |

### `getFileUrls`

> Added in `v4.0`

`getFileUrls` takes in a fileKey or an array of fileKeys and returns the URLs to
access them.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const oneUrl = await utapi.getFileUrls(
  "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
);
const multipleUrls = await utapi.getFileUrls([
  "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
  "1649353b-04ea-48a2-9db7-31de7f562c8d_image2.jpg",
]);
```

| Arguments    | Type                    | Required | Notes           | Description                                               |
| :----------- | :---------------------- | :------- | :-------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------- |
| input        | string \|\| string[]    | Yes      | Added in `v5.0` | The fileKey or fileKeys you want to get URLs for          |
| opts.keyType | "fileKey" \| "customId" | No       | Added in `v6.4` | The type of key you are passing in. Defaults to `fileKey` |

### `listFiles`

> Added in `v5.3`

`listFiles` returns an array of objects containing file ids and keys for all
files that have been uploaded to the application your API key corresponds to. As
of 6.0.5, you can optionally pass an `options` object to paginate the results

```ts
type ListFilesOptions = {
  /**
   * The maximum number of files to return
   * @default 500
   */
  limit?: number;
  /**
   * The number of files to skip
   * @default 0
   */
  offset?: number;
};
```

| Arguments | Type             | Required | Notes             | Description             |
| :-------- | :--------------- | :------- | :---------------- | :---------------------- |
| opts      | ListFilesOptions | No       | Added in `v6.0.5` | Options for pagination. |

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const files = await utapi.listFiles();

console.log(files);
/*
 * [
 *  {
 *    id: "7099d109-39ec-43fe-a887-4a4fd87cad88 ,
 *    customId: null, // whatever you set it to when uploading
 *    key: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
 *    name: "image.jpg",
 *    status: "uploaded",
 *  }
 * ]
 */
```

### `renameFiles`

> Added in `v5.3`

`renameFiles` takes in a `Rename` or an array of `Rename`s and renames the
appropriate files on the server.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

await utapi.renameFiles({
  fileKey: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
  newName: "myImage.jpg",
});

await utapi.renameFiles([
  {
    fileKey: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
    newName: "myImage.jpg",
  },
  {
    fileKey: "1649353b-04ea-48a2-9db7-31de7f562c8d_image2.jpg",
    newName: "myOtherImage.jpg",
  },
]);
```

#### `Rename` type definition

```ts
type Rename =
  | {
      fileKey: string;
      newName: string; // should include file extension
    }
  | {
      customId: string;
      newName: string; // should include file extension
    };
```

| Arguments | Type                 | Required | Description                                            |
| :-------- | :------------------- | :------- | :----------------------------------------------------- |
| renames   | Rename \|\| Rename[] | Yes      | Object specifying what file to rename and the new name |

### `getSignedURL`

> Added in `v6.2`

Retrieve a [signed URL](/regions-and-acl#using-signed-urls) for a private file.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const fileKey = "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg";
const url = await utapi.getSignedURL(fileKey, {
  expiresIn: 60 * 60, // 1 hour
  // expiresIn: '1 hour',
  // expiresIn: '3d',
  // expiresIn: '7 days',
});
```

<Callout>
  The `expiresIn` option can only be used if you allow overrides in your app
  settings on the UploadThing dashboard.
</Callout>

| Arguments      | Type                    | Required | Description                                                                            |
| :------------- | :---------------------- | :------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| key            | string                  | Yes      | The file key you want to get the URL for.                                              |
| opts.expiresIn | number \| TimeString    | No       | How long the URL should be valid for. Must be positive and less than 604 800 (7 days). |
| opts.keyType   | "fileKey" \| "customId" | No       | The type of key you are passing in. Defaults to `fileKey`                              |

> `TimeString` refers to a human-readable string that can be parsed as a number,
> followed by a unit of time. For example, `1s`, `1 second`, `2m`, `2 minutes`,
> `7 days` etc. If no unit is specified, seconds are assumed.

Commit message:

feat: add option to override name when uploading from url (#637)

docs/src/pages/api-reference/ut-api.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";

## `UTApi`

The UploadThing API Helper, for use ON YOUR SERVER. It's basically just a REST
API but better.

To get started, initialize an instance of `UTApi`.

<Callout type="info">
  Prior to `v5.7`, this was exported as a regular object called `utapi` without
  any custom intialization support.
</Callout>

```ts filename="~/server/uploadthing.ts"
import { UTApi } from "uploadthing/server";

export const utapi = new UTApi();
```

The constructor takes some optional arguments that you can pass to override the
defaults. Below are shown the available options, the default values, and the
types of the values.

```ts
export interface UTApiOptions {
  /**
   * Provide a custom fetch function.
   * @default globalThis.fetch
   */
  fetch?: FetchEsque;
  /**
   * Provide a custom UploadThing API key.
   * @default process.env.UPLOADTHING_SECRET
   */
  apiKey?: string;
  /**
   * @default "info"
   */
  logLevel?: LogLevel;
  /**
   * Set the default key type for file operations. Allows you to set your preferred filter
   * for file keys or custom identifiers without needing to specify it on every call.
   * @default "fileKey"
   */
  defaultKeyType?: "fileKey" | "customId";
}
```

### `uploadFiles`

> Added in `v5.3`

Upload files directly from your server **without** using the file router. Useful
for server-side file processing, uploading from a server action, and much more.

```tsx
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

async function uploadFiles(formData: FormData) {
  "use server";
  const files = formData.getAll("files");
  const response = await utapi.uploadFiles(files);
  //    ^? UploadedFileResponse[]
}

function MyForm() {
  return (
    <form action={uploadFiles}>
      <input name="files" type="file" multiple />
      <button type="submit">Upload</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```

When uploading files using `uploadFiles`, the files must be present on your
server. Then presigned URLs are generated on our servers before the files can be
uploaded to the storage provider.

| Arguments               | Type                       | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| files                   | FileEsque \|\| FileEsque[] | Yes      | The file(s) you want to upload                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| opts.metadata           | Json                       | No       | Metadata to attach to the file(s)                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| opts.contentDisposition | "inline" \| "attachment"   | No       | What [content disposition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Disposition) should be set on the storage provider. Defaults to `inline`                                                                         |
| opts.acl                | "public-read" \| "private" | No       | What [ACL](/regions-and-acl#access-controls) should be set on the storage provider. Defaults to whatever is [configured on your app settings](/regions-and-acl#configuring-acl) and can only be used if the app allows per-request overrides. |

```ts
// Edge / Node < 20 friendly File interface
interface FileEsque extends Blob {
  name: string;
  customId?: string;
}
```

The returned `UploadedFileResponse` is an object with the following shape. If
the `files` argument is an array, the returned value will be of type
`UploadedFileResponse[]`.

```ts
type UploadFileResponse =
  | { data: UploadData; error: null }
  | { data: null; error: UploadError };

type UploadData = {
  key: string;
  url: string;
  name: string;
  size: number;
};

type UploadError = {
  code: string;
  message: string;
  data: any;
};
```

### `uploadFilesFromUrl`

> Added in `v5.3`

Have a file hosted somewhere else you want to upload on UploadThing? This is the
function you're looking for.

<Callout type="warning">
  When uploading files from URL, the file is first downloaded on **your**
  server, before presigned URLs are created and the file is uploaded to the
  storage provider.
</Callout>

```tsx
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const fileUrl = "https://test.com/some.png";
const uploadedFile = await utapi.uploadFilesFromUrl(fileUrl);
//    ^? UploadedFileResponse

const fileUrls = ["https://test.com/some.png", "https://test.com/some2.png"];
const uploadedFiles = await utapi.uploadFilesFromUrl(fileUrls);
//    ^? UploadedFileResponse[]
```

| Arguments               | Type                                                     | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| urls                    | `MaybeUrl \| UrlWithName \| (MaybeUrl \| UrlWithName)[]` | Yes      | The URL(s) of the file(s) you wish to upload. Pass a `UrlWithName` object if you wanna set the filename yourself, or else it will be inferred from the URL pathname.                                                                          |
| opts.metadata           | Json                                                     | No       | Metadata to attach to the file(s)                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| opts.contentDisposition | "inline" \| "attachment"                                 | No       | What [content disposition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Disposition) should be set on the storage provider. Defaults to `inline`                                                                         |
| opts.acl                | "public-read" \| "private"                               | No       | What [ACL](/regions-and-acl#access-controls) should be set on the storage provider. Defaults to whatever is [configured on your app settings](/regions-and-acl#configuring-acl) and can only be used if the app allows per-request overrides. |

```ts
type MaybeUrl = string | URL;
type UrlWithName = { url: MaybeUrl; name: string };
```

### `deleteFiles`

> Added in `v4.0`

`deleteFiles` takes in a fileKey or an array of fileKeys and deletes them from
the server.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

await utapi.deleteFiles("2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg");
await utapi.deleteFiles([
  "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
  "1649353b-04ea-48a2-9db7-31de7f562c8d_image2.jpg",
]);
await deleteFiles("myCustomIdentifier", { keyType: "customId" });
```

| Arguments    | Type                    | Required | Notes           | Description                                               |
| :----------- | :---------------------- | :------- | :-------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------- |
| input        | string \|\| string[]    | Yes      | Added in `v5.0` | The fileKey or fileKeys you want to delete                |
| opts.keyType | "fileKey" \| "customId" | No       | Added in `v6.4` | The type of key you are passing in. Defaults to `fileKey` |

### `getFileUrls`

> Added in `v4.0`

`getFileUrls` takes in a fileKey or an array of fileKeys and returns the URLs to
access them.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const oneUrl = await utapi.getFileUrls(
  "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
);
const multipleUrls = await utapi.getFileUrls([
  "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
  "1649353b-04ea-48a2-9db7-31de7f562c8d_image2.jpg",
]);
```

| Arguments    | Type                    | Required | Notes           | Description                                               |
| :----------- | :---------------------- | :------- | :-------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------- |
| input        | string \|\| string[]    | Yes      | Added in `v5.0` | The fileKey or fileKeys you want to get URLs for          |
| opts.keyType | "fileKey" \| "customId" | No       | Added in `v6.4` | The type of key you are passing in. Defaults to `fileKey` |

### `listFiles`

> Added in `v5.3`

`listFiles` returns an array of objects containing file ids and keys for all
files that have been uploaded to the application your API key corresponds to. As
of 6.0.5, you can optionally pass an `options` object to paginate the results

```ts
type ListFilesOptions = {
  /**
   * The maximum number of files to return
   * @default 500
   */
  limit?: number;
  /**
   * The number of files to skip
   * @default 0
   */
  offset?: number;
};
```

| Arguments | Type             | Required | Notes             | Description             |
| :-------- | :--------------- | :------- | :---------------- | :---------------------- |
| opts      | ListFilesOptions | No       | Added in `v6.0.5` | Options for pagination. |

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const files = await utapi.listFiles();

console.log(files);
/*
 * [
 *  {
 *    id: "7099d109-39ec-43fe-a887-4a4fd87cad88 ,
 *    customId: null, // whatever you set it to when uploading
 *    key: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
 *    name: "image.jpg",
 *    status: "uploaded",
 *  }
 * ]
 */
```

### `renameFiles`

> Added in `v5.3`

`renameFiles` takes in a `Rename` or an array of `Rename`s and renames the
appropriate files on the server.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

await utapi.renameFiles({
  fileKey: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
  newName: "myImage.jpg",
});

await utapi.renameFiles([
  {
    fileKey: "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg",
    newName: "myImage.jpg",
  },
  {
    fileKey: "1649353b-04ea-48a2-9db7-31de7f562c8d_image2.jpg",
    newName: "myOtherImage.jpg",
  },
]);
```

#### `Rename` type definition

```ts
type Rename =
  | {
      fileKey: string;
      newName: string; // should include file extension
    }
  | {
      customId: string;
      newName: string; // should include file extension
    };
```

| Arguments | Type                 | Required | Description                                            |
| :-------- | :------------------- | :------- | :----------------------------------------------------- |
| renames   | Rename \|\| Rename[] | Yes      | Object specifying what file to rename and the new name |

### `getSignedURL`

> Added in `v6.2`

Retrieve a [signed URL](/regions-and-acl#using-signed-urls) for a private file.

```ts
import { utapi } from "~/server/uploadthing.ts";

const fileKey = "2e0fdb64-9957-4262-8e45-f372ba903ac8_image.jpg";
const url = await utapi.getSignedURL(fileKey, {
  expiresIn: 60 * 60, // 1 hour
  // expiresIn: '1 hour',
  // expiresIn: '3d',
  // expiresIn: '7 days',
});
```

<Callout>
  The `expiresIn` option can only be used if you allow overrides in your app
  settings on the UploadThing dashboard.
</Callout>

| Arguments      | Type                    | Required | Description                                                                            |
| :------------- | :---------------------- | :------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| key            | string                  | Yes      | The file key you want to get the URL for.                                              |
| opts.expiresIn | number \| TimeString    | No       | How long the URL should be valid for. Must be positive and less than 604 800 (7 days). |
| opts.keyType   | "fileKey" \| "customId" | No       | The type of key you are passing in. Defaults to `fileKey`                              |

> `TimeString` refers to a human-readable string that can be parsed as a number,
> followed by a unit of time. For example, `1s`, `1 second`, `2m`, `2 minutes`,
> `7 days` etc. If no unit is specified, seconds are assumed.
